Basic Res Cardiol. 2024 Mar 30. doi: 10.1007/s00395-024-01045-1. Online ahead of 
print.

Role of inflammatory signaling pathways involving the CD40-CD40L-TRAF cascade in 
diabetes and hypertension-insights from animal and human studies.

Strohm L(#)(1), Daiber A(#)(2)(3)(4), Ubbens H(1), Krishnankutty R(5), Oelze 
M(1), Kuntic M(1), Hahad O(1)(6), Klein V(1), Hoefer IE(7), von Kriegsheim A(5), 
Kleinert H(8), Atzler D(9)(10)(11), Lurz P(1)(6), Weber C(9)(10)(12)(13), Wild 
PS(14)(15)(16)(17), Münzel T(1)(6), Knosalla C(18)(19)(20), Lutgens 
E(9)(10)(21), Daub S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Cardiology I, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Cardiology I, University Medical Center of the 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany. daiber@uni-mainz.de.
(3)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite Rhine-Main, 
Mainz, Germany. daiber@uni-mainz.de.
(4)Universitätsmedizin der Johannes Gutenberg-Universität Zentrum für 
Kardiologie 1, Labor für Molekulare Kardiologie, Geb. 605, Raum 3.262, 
Langenbeckstr. 1, 55131, Mainz, Germany. daiber@uni-mainz.de.
(5)Institute of Genetics and Cancer, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite Rhine-Main, 
Mainz, Germany.
(7)Central Diagnostic Laboratory, UMC Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(8)Department of Pharmacology, University Medical Center of the Johannes 
Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.
(9)Institute for Cardiovascular Prevention (IPEK), Ludwig-Maximilians 
Universität, Munich, Germany.
(10)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Munich Heart 
Alliance, Munich, Germany.
(11)Walther Straub Institute of Pharmacology and Toxicology, LMU Munich, Munich, 
Germany.
(12)Munich Cluster for Systems Neurology (SyNergy), Munich, Germany.
(13)Department of Biochemistry, Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht 
(CARIM), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(14)Preventive Cardiology and Preventive Medicine, Department of Cardiology, 
University Medical Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(15)Clinical Epidemiology and Systems Medicine, Center for Thrombosis and 
Hemostasis, University Medical Center Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University 
Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(16)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partnersite Rhine-Main, 
University Medical Center Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Mainz, 
Germany.
(17)Systems Medicine, Institute of Molecular Biology (IMB), Mainz, Germany.
(18)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Deutsches Herzzentrum der 
Charité, Berlin, Germany.
(19)Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Corporate Member of Freie Universität 
Berlin and Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(20)German Center for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), Partner Site Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.
(21)Department Cardiovascular Medicine and Immunology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
MN, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

CD40L-CD40-TRAF signaling plays a role in atherosclerosis progression and 
affects the pathogenesis of coronary heart disease (CHD). We tested the 
hypothesis that CD40L-CD40-TRAF signaling is a potential therapeutic target in 
hyperlipidemia, diabetes, and hypertension. In mouse models of hyperlipidemia 
plus diabetes (db/db mice) or hypertension (1 mg/kg/d angiotensin-II for 
7 days), TRAF6 inhibitor treatment (2.5 mg/kg/d for 7 or 14 days) normalized 
markers of oxidative stress and inflammation. As diabetes and hypertension are 
important comorbidities aggravating CHD, we explored whether the CD40L-CD40-TRAF 
signaling cascade and their associated inflammatory pathways are expressed in 
CHD patients suffering from comorbidities. Therefore, we analyzed vascular 
bypass material (aorta or internal mammary artery) and plasma from patients with 
CHD with diabetes and/or hypertension. Our Olink targeted plasma proteomic 
analysis using the IMMUNO-ONCOLOGY panel revealed a pattern of step-wise 
increase for 13/92 markers of low-grade inflammation with significant changes. 
CD40L or CD40 significantly correlated with 38 or 56 other inflammatory targets. 
In addition, specific gene clusters that correlate with the comorbidities were 
identified in isolated aortic mRNA of CHD patients through RNA-sequencing. These 
signaling clusters comprised CD40L-CD40-TRAF, immune system, hemostasis, muscle 
contraction, metabolism of lipids, developmental biology, and apoptosis. 
Finally, immunological analysis revealed key markers correlated with 
comorbidities in CHD patients, such as CD40L, NOX2, CD68, and 3-nitrotyrosine. 
These data indicate that comorbidities increase inflammatory pathways in CHD, 
and targeting these pathways will be beneficial in reducing cardiovascular 
events in CHD patients with comorbidities.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00395-024-01045-1
PMID: 38554187


N Engl J Med. 2015 Apr 23;372(17):1608-18. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1404881. Epub 2015 
Apr 8.

Genetically determined height and coronary artery disease.

Nelson CP(1), Hamby SE, Saleheen D, Hopewell JC, Zeng L, Assimes TL, Kanoni S, 
Willenborg C, Burgess S, Amouyel P, Anand S, Blankenberg S, Boehm BO, Clarke RJ, 
Collins R, Dedoussis G, Farrall M, Franks PW, Groop L, Hall AS, Hamsten A, 
Hengstenberg C, Hovingh GK, Ingelsson E, Kathiresan S, Kee F, König IR, Kooner 
J, Lehtimäki T, März W, McPherson R, Metspalu A, Nieminen MS, O'Donnell CJ, 
Palmer CN, Peters A, Perola M, Reilly MP, Ripatti S, Roberts R, Salomaa V, Shah 
SH, Schreiber S, Siegbahn A, Thorsteinsdottir U, Veronesi G, Wareham N, Willer 
CJ, Zalloua PA, Erdmann J, Deloukas P, Watkins H, Schunkert H, Danesh J, 
Thompson JR, Samani NJ; CARDIoGRAM+C4D Consortium.

Collaborators: Deloukas P, Kanoni S, Willenborg C, Farrall M, Assimes T, 
Thompson JR, Ingelsson E, Saleheen D, Erdmann J, Goldstein BA, Stirrups K, König 
IR, Cazier JB, Johansson Å, Hall AS, Lee JY, Willer CJ, Chambers JC, Esko T, 
Folkersen L, Goel A, Grundberg E, Havulinna AS, Ho WK, Hopewell JC, Eriksson N, 
Kleber ME, Kristiansson K, Lundmark P, Lyytikäinen LP, Rafelt S, Shungin D, 
Strawbridge RJ, Thorleifsson G, Tikkanen E, Van Zuydam N, Voight BF, Waite LL, 
Zhang W, Ziegler A, Absher D, Altshuler D, Balmforth AJ, Barroso I, Braund PS, 
Burgdorf C, Claudi-Boehm S, Cox D, Dimitriou M, Do R, Doney AS, El Mokhtari N, 
Eriksson P, Fischer K, Fontanillas P, Franco-Cereceda A, Gigante B, Groop L, 
Gustafsson S, Hager J, Hallmans G, Han BG, Hunt SE, Kang HM, Illig T, Kessler T, 
Knowles JW, Kolovou G, Kuusisto J, Langenberg C, Langford C, Leander K, Lokki 
ML, Lundmark A, McCarthy MI, Meisinger C, Melander O, Mihailov E, Maouche S, 
Morris AD, Müller-Nurasyid M, Nikus K, Peden JF, Rayner NW, Rasheed A, Rosinger 
S, Rubin D, Rumpf MP, Schäfer A, Sivananthan M, Song C, Stewart AF, Tan ST, 
Thorgeirsson G, van der Schoot CE, Wagner PJ, Wells GA, Wild PS, Yang TP, 
Amouyel P, Arveiler D, Basart H, Boehnke M, Boerwinkle E, Brambilla P, Cambien 
F, Cupples AL, de Faire U, Dehghan A, Diemert P, Epstein SE, Evans A, Ferrario 
MM, Ferrières J, Gauguier D, Go AS, Goodall AH, Gudnason V, Hazen SL, Holm H, 
Iribarren C, Jang Y, Kähönen M, Kee F, Kim HS, Klopp N, Koenig W, Kratzer W, 
Kuulasmaa K, Laakso M, Laaksonen R, Lee JY, Lind L, Ouwehand WH, Parish S, Park 
JE, Pedersen NL, Peters A, Quertermous T, Rader DJ, Salomaa V, Schadt E, Shah 
SH, Sinisalo J, Stark K, Stefansson K, Trégouët DA, Virtamo J, Wallentin L, 
Wareham N, Zimmermann ME, Nieminen MS, Hengstenberg C, Sandhu MS, Pastinen T, 
Syvänen AC, Hovingh GK, Dedoussis G, Franks PW, Lehtimäki T, Metspalu A, Zalloua 
PA, Siegbahn A, Schreiber S, Ripatti S, Blankenberg SS, Perola M, Clarke R, 
Boehm BO, O'Donnell C, Reilly MP, März W, Collins R, Kathiresan S, Hamsten A, 
Kooner JS, Thorsteinsdottir U, Danesh J, Palmer CN, Roberts R, Watkins H, 
Schunkert H, Samani NJ.

Author information:
(1)The authors' affiliations are listed in the Appendix.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2015 Apr 09;350:h1875. doi: 10.1136/bmj.h1875.

BACKGROUND: The nature and underlying mechanisms of an inverse association 
between adult height and the risk of coronary artery disease (CAD) are unclear.
METHODS: We used a genetic approach to investigate the association between 
height and CAD, using 180 height-associated genetic variants. We tested the 
association between a change in genetically determined height of 1 SD (6.5 cm) 
with the risk of CAD in 65,066 cases and 128,383 controls. Using 
individual-level genotype data from 18,249 persons, we also examined the risk of 
CAD associated with the presence of various numbers of height-associated 
alleles. To identify putative mechanisms, we analyzed whether genetically 
determined height was associated with known cardiovascular risk factors and 
performed a pathway analysis of the height-associated genes.
RESULTS: We observed a relative increase of 13.5% (95% confidence interval [CI], 
5.4 to 22.1; P<0.001) in the risk of CAD per 1-SD decrease in genetically 
determined height. There was a graded relationship between the presence of an 
increased number of height-raising variants and a reduced risk of CAD (odds 
ratio for height quartile 4 versus quartile 1, 0.74; 95% CI, 0.68 to 0.84; 
P<0.001). Of the 12 risk factors that we studied, we observed significant 
associations only with levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and 
triglycerides (accounting for approximately 30% of the association). We 
identified several overlapping pathways involving genes associated with both 
development and atherosclerosis.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a primary association between a genetically determined 
shorter height and an increased risk of CAD, a link that is partly explained by 
the association between shorter height and an adverse lipid profile. Shared 
biologic processes that determine achieved height and the development of 
atherosclerosis may explain some of the association. (Funded by the British 
Heart Foundation and others.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1404881
PMCID: PMC4648271
PMID: 25853659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e46419. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046419. Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Can genetic pleiotropy replicate common clinical constellations of 
cardiovascular disease and risk?

Gottesman O(1), Drill E, Lotay V, Bottinger E, Peter I.

Author information:
(1)The Charles Bronfman Institute for Personalized Medicine, Mount Sinai School 
of Medicine, New York, New York, United States of America. 
omri.gottesman@mssm.edu

The relationship between obesity, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, kidney 
disease and cardiovascular disease (CVD) is established when looked at from a 
clinical, epidemiological or pathophysiological perspective. Yet, when viewed 
from a genetic perspective, there is comparatively little data synthesis that 
these conditions have an underlying relationship. We sought to investigate the 
overlap of genetic variants independently associated with each of these commonly 
co-existing conditions from the NHGRI genome-wide association study (GWAS) 
catalog, in an attempt to replicate the established notion of shared 
pathophysiology and risk. We used pathway-based analyses to detect subsets of 
pleiotropic genes involved in similar biological processes. We identified 107 
eligible GWAS studies related to CVD and its established comorbidities and risk 
factors and assigned genes that correspond to the associated signals based on 
their position. We found 44 positional genes shared across at least two 
CVD-related phenotypes that independently recreated the established relationship 
between the six phenotypes, but only if studies representing non-European 
populations were included. Seven genes revealed pleiotropy across three or more 
phenotypes, mostly related to lipid transport and metabolism. Yet, many genes 
had no relationship to each other or to genes with established functional 
connection. Whilst we successfully reproduced established relationships between 
CVD risk factors using GWAS findings, interpretation of biological pathways 
involved in the observed pleiotropy was limited. Further studies linking genetic 
variation to gene expression, as well as describing novel biological pathways 
will be needed to take full advantage of GWAS results.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046419
PMCID: PMC3460880
PMID: 23029515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


