J Parkinsons Dis. 2024 May 24. doi: 10.3233/JPD-240075. Online ahead of print.

Localized Pantothenic Acid (Vitamin B5) Reductions Present Throughout the 
Dementia with Lewy Bodies Brain.

Scholefield M(1), Church SJ(1), Xu J(2), Patassini S(2), Cooper GJS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of 
Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Auckland, 
Private Bag, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Localized pantothenic acid deficiencies have been observed in 
several neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease dementia (PDD), and Huntington's disease (HD), indicating downstream 
energetic pathway perturbations. However, no studies have yet been performed to 
see whether such deficiencies occur across the dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) 
brain, or what the pattern of such dysregulation may be.
OBJECTIVE: Firstly, this study aimed to quantify pantothenic acid levels across 
ten regions of the brain in order to determine the localization of any 
pantothenic acid dysregulation in DLB. Secondly, the localization of pantothenic 
acid alterations was compared to that previously in AD, PDD, and HD brains.
METHODS: Pantothenic acid levels were determined in 20 individuals with DLB and 
19 controls by ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) across ten brain regions. Case-control differences 
were determined by nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test, with the calculation of 
S-values, risk ratios, E-values, and effect sizes. The results were compared 
with those previously obtained in DLB, AD, and HD.
RESULTS: Pantothenic acid levels were significantly decreased in six of the ten 
investigated brain regions: the pons, substantia nigra, motor cortex, middle 
temporal gyrus, primary visual cortex, and hippocampus. This level of 
pantothenic acid dysregulation is most similar to that of the AD brain, in which 
pantothenic acid is also decreased in the motor cortex, middle temporal gyrus, 
primary visual cortex, and hippocampus. DLB appears to differ from other 
neurodegenerative diseases in being the only of the four to not show pantothenic 
acid dysregulation in the cerebellum.
CONCLUSIONS: Pantothenic acid deficiency appears to be a shared mechanism of 
several neurodegenerative diseases, although differences in the localization of 
this dysregulation may contribute to the differing clinical pathways observed in 
these conditions.

Plain Language Summary: Decreases in a molecule called pantothenic acid (also 
known as vitamin B5) have been observed in several areas of the brain in 
multiple dementia disease, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease 
dementia, and Huntington’s disease. However, it is unknown whether such changes 
also occur in another dementia disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, which shows 
many of the same symptoms and molecular changes as these conditions. As such, 
this study was performed in order to determine if and where changes in 
pantothenic acid occur throughout the dementia with Lewy bodies brain. Using a 
methodology called liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry, which is able to 
measure pantothenic acid levels in a highly precise manner in brain tissues, we 
found that several regions of the dementia with Lewy bodies brain show decreases 
in pantothenic acid, including some involved in movement such as the substantia 
nigra and motor cortex, as well as regions associated with cognition and memory 
such as the hippocampus—looking most similar to the pattern of changes already 
seen in Alzheimer’s disease. It is possible that these changes contribute to the 
progression of dementia with Lewy bodies; however, further studies need to be 
performed to determine at what point these changes happen during the disease and 
how they may contribute to the development of symptoms.

DOI: 10.3233/JPD-240075
PMID: 38820022


Cell Rep Med. 2024 May 21;5(5):101529. doi: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2024.101529. Epub 
2024 May 3.

Genetic variants for head size share genes and pathways with cancer.

Knol MJ(1), Poot RA(2), Evans TE(3), Satizabal CL(4), Mishra A(5), 
Sargurupremraj M(6), van der Auwera S(7), Duperron MG(5), Jian X(8), Hostettler 
IC(9), van Dam-Nolen DHK(10), Lamballais S(11), Pawlak MA(12), Lewis CE(13), 
Carrion-Castillo A(14), van Erp TGM(15), Reinbold CS(16), Shin J(17), Scholz 
M(18), Håberg AK(19), Kämpe A(20), Li GHY(21), Avinun R(22), Atkins JR(23), Hsu 
FC(24), Amod AR(25), Lam M(26), Tsuchida A(27), Teunissen MWA(28), Aygün N(29), 
Patel Y(30), Liang D(29), Beiser AS(31), Beyer F(32), Bis JC(33), Bos D(34), 
Bryan RN(35), Bülow R(36), Caspers S(37), Catheline G(38), Cecil CAM(39), Dalvie 
S(25), Dartigues JF(40), DeCarli C(41), Enlund-Cerullo M(42), Ford JM(43), 
Franke B(44), Freedman BI(45), Friedrich N(46), Green MJ(47), Haworth S(48), 
Helmer C(49), Hoffmann P(50), Homuth G(51), Ikram MK(52), Jack CR Jr(53), 
Jahanshad N(54), Jockwitz C(55), Kamatani Y(56), Knodt AR(22), Li S(57), Lim 
K(58), Longstreth WT(59), Macciardi F(60); Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research 
in Genomic Epidemiology (CHARGE) Consortium; Enhancing NeuroImaging Genetics 
through Meta-Analysis (ENIGMA) Consortium; Mäkitie O(61), Mazoyer B(62), Medland 
SE(63), Miyamoto S(64), Moebus S(65), Mosley TH(66), Muetzel R(39), Mühleisen 
TW(67), Nagata M(64), Nakahara S(68), Palmer ND(69), Pausova Z(17), Preda A(70), 
Quidé Y(47), Reay WR(23), Roshchupkin GV(34), Schmidt R(71), Schreiner PJ(72), 
Setoh K(56), Shapland CY(73), Sidney S(74), St Pourcain B(75), Stein JL(29), 
Tabara Y(56), Teumer A(76), Uhlmann A(25), van der Lugt A(10), Vernooij MW(34), 
Werring DJ(77), Windham BG(66), Witte AV(32), Wittfeld K(7), Yang Q(57), Yoshida 
K(64), Brunner HG(78), Le Grand Q(79), Sim K(80), Stein DJ(81), Bowden DW(69), 
Cairns MJ(23), Hariri AR(22), Cheung CL(82), Andersson S(83), Villringer A(84), 
Paus T(85), Cichon S(86), Calhoun VD(87), Crivello F(88), Launer LJ(89), White 
T(90), Koudstaal PJ(91), Houlden H(77), Fornage M(92), Matsuda F(56), Grabe 
HJ(93), Ikram MA(1), Debette S(94), Thompson PM(54), Seshadri S(4), Adams 
HHH(95).

Collaborators: Amouyel P, Arfanakis K, Aribisala BS, Bastin ME, Chauhan G, Chen 
C, Cheng CY, de Jager PL, Deary IJ, Fleischman DA, Gottesman RF, Gudnason V, 
Hilal S, Hofer E, Janowitz D, Jukema JW, Liewald DCM, Lopez LM, Lopez O, Luciano 
M, Martinez O, Niessen WJ, Nyquist P, Rotter JI, Rundek T, Sacco RL, Schmidt H, 
Tiemeier H, Trompet S, van der Grond J, Völzke H, Wardlaw JM, Yanek L, Yang J, 
Agartz I, Alhusaini S, Almasy L, Ames D, Amunts K, Andreassen OA, Armstrong N, 
Bernard M, Blangero J, Blanken LME, Boks MP, Boomsma DI, Brickman AM, Brodaty H, 
Buckner RL, Buitelaar JK, Cannon DM, Carr VJ, Catts SV, Chakravarty MM, Chen Q, 
Ching CRK, Corvin A, Crespo-Facorro B, Curran JE, Davies GE, de Geus EJC, de 
Zubicaray GI, den Braber A, Desrivières S, Dillman A, Djurovic S, Drevets WC, 
Duggirala R, Ehrlich S, Erk S, Espeseth T, Fedko IO, Fernández G, Fisher SE, 
Foroud TM, Ge T, Giddaluru S, Glahn DC, Goldman AL, Green RC, Greven CU, Grimm 
O, Hansell NK, Hartman CA, Hashimoto R, Heinz A, Henskens F, Hibar DP, Ho BC, 
Hoekstra PJ, Holmes AJ, Hoogman M, Hottenga JJ, Hulshoff Pol HE, Jablensky A, 
Jenkinson M, Jia T, Jöckel KH, Jönsson EG, Kim S, Klein M, Kochunov P, Kwok JB, 
Lawrie SM, Le Hellard S, Lemaître H, Loughland C, Marquand AF, Martin NG, 
Martinot JL, Matarin M, Mathalon DH, Mather KA, Mattay VS, McDonald C, McMahon 
FJ, McMahon KL, E R, McWhirter, Mecocci P, Melle I, Meyer-Lindenberg A, Michie 
PT, Milaneschi Y, Morris DW, Mowry B, Nho K, Nichols TE, Nöthen MN, Olvera RL, 
Oosterlaan J, Ophoff RA, Pandolfo M, Pantelis C, Pappa I, Penninx B, Pike GB, 
Rasser PE, Rentería ME, Reppermund S, Rietschel M, Risacher SL, 
Romanczuk-Seiferth N, Rose EJ, Sachdev PS, Sämann PG, Saykin AJ, Schall U, 
Schofield PR, Schramm S, Schumann G, Scott R, Shen L, Sisodiya SM, Soininen H, 
Sprooten E, Srikanth V, Steen VM, Strike LT, Thalamuthu A, Toga AW, Tooney P, 
Tordesillas-Gutiérrez D, Turner JA, Valdés Hernández MDC, van der Meer D, Van 
der Wee NJA, Van Haren NEM, van 't Ent D, Veltman DJ, Walter H, Weinberger DR, 
Weiner MW, Wen W, Westlye LT, Westman E, Winkler AM, Woldehawariat G, Wright MJ, 
Wu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, 
Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, UT Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA; The Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, 
USA; Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(5)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team VINTAGE, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France.
(6)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, UT Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany; German Centre of Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Site 
Rostock/Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(8)Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine, McGovern Medical School, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(9)Stroke Research Centre, University College London, Institute of Neurology, 
London, UK; Department of Neurosurgery, Klinikum rechts der Isar, University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany; Neurosurgical Department, Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, 
St. Gallen, Switzerland.
(10)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(11)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(12)Department of Neurology, Poznań University of Medical Sciences, Poznań, 
Poland; Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(13)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham School of Medicine, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(14)Language and Genetics Department, Max Planck Institute for 
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(15)Clinical Translational Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA; Center for 
the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, University of California, Irvine, 
Irvine, CA, USA.
(16)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Medical Genetics and Pathology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland; Institute of Computational Life Sciences, Zurich University of 
Applied Sciences, Wädenswil, Switzerland.
(17)The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; 
Departments of Physiology and Nutritional Sciences, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada.
(18)Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and Epidemiology, University 
of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany; LIFE Research Center for Civilization Disease, 
Leipzig, Germany.
(19)Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway; Department of Radiology and 
Nuclear Medicine, St. Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(20)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Clinical Genetics, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(21)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, 
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(22)Laboratory of NeuroGenetics, Department of Psychology & Neuroscience, Duke 
University, Durham, NC, USA.
(23)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, The University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, NSW, Australia; Centre for Brain and Mental Health Research, Hunter 
Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(24)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(25)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(26)North Region, Institute of Mental Health, Singapore, Singapore; Population 
and Global Health, LKC Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(27)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team VINTAGE, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France; Groupe d'imagerie neurofonctionnelle, 
Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA, Université de 
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(28)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Department of Neurology, Maastricht University Medical Center+, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(29)Department of Genetics UNC Neuroscience Center, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(30)Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(31)The Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, USA; Department of Neurology, 
Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; Department of 
Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(32)Department of Neurology, Max Planck Institute for Cognitive and Brain 
Sciences, Leipzig, Germany; Collaborative Research Center 1052 Obesity 
Mechanisms, Faculty of Medicine, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany; Day 
Clinic for Cognitive Neurology, University Hospital Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(33)Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, Department of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(34)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands; Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(35)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(36)Institute of Diagnostic Radiology and Neuroradiology, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(37)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, 
Jülich, Germany; Institute for Anatomy I, Medical Faculty & University Hospital 
Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(38)University of Bordeaux, CNRS, INCIA, UMR 5287, team NeuroImagerie et 
Cognition Humaine, Bordeaux, France; EPHE-PSL University, Bordeaux, France.
(39)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands; Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(40)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team SEPIA, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France.
(41)Department of Neurology and Center for Neuroscience, University of 
California at Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(42)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland; Folkhälsan Research Center, Helsinki, Finland.
(43)San Francisco Veterans Administration Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, 
USA; University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(44)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Department of Psychiatry, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands; Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and 
Behaviour, Radboud University, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(45)Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Nephrology, Wake Forest School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(46)Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(47)School of Clinical Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(48)Bristol Dental School, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(49)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team LEHA, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France.
(50)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Medical Genetics and Pathology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland; Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn Medical School, 
Bonn, Germany.
(51)Interfaculty Institute for Genetics and Functional Genomics, University 
Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(52)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands; Department of Neurology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(53)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(54)Imaging Genetics Center, Mark & Mary Stevens Neuroimaging & Informatics 
Institute, Keck USC School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(55)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, 
Jülich, Germany; Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, 
RWTH Aachen University, Medical Faculty, Aachen, Germany.
(56)Center for Genomic Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(57)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(58)Research Division, Institute of Mental Health, Singapore, Singapore.
(59)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; 
Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(60)Laboratory of Molecular Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry and Human 
Behavior, School of Medicine, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(61)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Clinical Genetics, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden; Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and 
Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland; Folkhälsan Research Center, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(62)Groupe d'imagerie neurofonctionnelle, Institut des Maladies 
Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, 
France; Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(63)Psychiatric Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia; School of Psychology, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia; Faculty of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.
(64)Department of Neurosurgery, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(65)Institute for Urban Public Health, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(66)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, University of Mississippi 
Medical Center, Jackson, MS, USA; Memory Impairment and Neurodegenerative 
Dementia (MIND) Center, Jackson, MS, USA.
(67)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, Jülich, 
Germany; C. and O. Vogt Institute for Brain Research, Medical Faculty, Heinrich 
Heine University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(68)Clinical Translational Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA; Unit 2, 
Candidate Discovery Science Labs, Drug Discovery Research, Astellas Pharma Inc, 
21 Miyukigaoka, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8585, Japan.
(69)Department of Biochemistry, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, 
NC, USA.
(70)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(71)Clinical Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurology, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(72)University of Minnesota School of Public Health, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(73)Language and Genetics Department, Max Planck Institute for 
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK; Population Health Sciences, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(74)Kaiser Permanente Division of Research, Oakland, CA, USA.
(75)Language and Genetics Department, Max Planck Institute for 
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; Donders Institute for Brain, 
Cognition, and Behaviour, Radboud University, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; MRC 
Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(76)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany; Institute for Community Medicine, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(77)Stroke Research Centre, University College London, Institute of Neurology, 
London, UK.
(78)Department of Human Genetics, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and 
Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; 
Department of Clinical Genetics MUMC+, GROW School of Oncology and Developmental 
Biology, and MHeNs School of Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(79)Bordeaux Population Health, University of Bordeaux, INSERM U1219, Bordeaux, 
France.
(80)West Region, Institute of Mental Health, Singapore, Singapore; Yong Loo Lin 
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; Lee 
Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(81)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany; 
SAMRC Unit on Risk and Resilience, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South 
Africa.
(82)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, 
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; Centre for Genomic Sciences, Li 
Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; 
Department of Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(83)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(84)Department of Neurology, Max Planck Institute for Cognitive and Brain 
Sciences, Leipzig, Germany; Day Clinic for Cognitive Neurology, University 
Hospital Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(85)Departments of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine and Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire Sainte-Justine, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada; Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(86)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Medical Genetics and Pathology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland; Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre 
Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(87)Tri-institutional Center for Translational Research in Neuroimaging and Data 
Science (TReNDS) {Georgia State, Georgia Tech, Emory}, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(88)Groupe d'imagerie neurofonctionnelle, Institut des Maladies 
Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, 
France.
(89)Laboratory of Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry, Intramural Research 
Program, National Institute of Aging, The National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(90)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(91)Department of Neurology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(92)Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine, McGovern Medical School, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA; Human 
Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas Health Science 
Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(93)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(94)Bordeaux Population Health, University of Bordeaux, INSERM U1219, Bordeaux, 
France; Department of Neurology, Bordeaux University Hospital, Bordeaux, France.
(95)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Latin American Brain Health (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo 
Ibáñez, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address: hieab.adams@radboudumc.nl.

The size of the human head is highly heritable, but genetic drivers of its 
variation within the general population remain unmapped. We perform a 
genome-wide association study on head size (N = 80,890) and identify 67 genetic 
loci, of which 50 are novel. Neuroimaging studies show that 17 variants affect 
specific brain areas, but most have widespread effects. Gene set enrichment is 
observed for various cancers and the p53, Wnt, and ErbB signaling pathways. 
Genes harboring lead variants are enriched for macrocephaly syndrome genes 
(37-fold) and high-fidelity cancer genes (9-fold), which is not seen for human 
height variants. Head size variants are also near genes preferentially expressed 
in intermediate progenitor cells, neural cells linked to evolutionary brain 
expansion. Our results indicate that genes regulating early brain and cranial 
growth incline to neoplasia later in life, irrespective of height. This warrants 
investigation of clinical implications of the link between head size and cancer.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2024.101529
PMCID: PMC11148644
PMID: 38703765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests H.H. and I.C.H. 
received funding from Alzheimer’s Research UK and the Dunhill Medical Trust 
Foundation. M.A.P. reported receiving grants and personal and travel fees from 
Roche, Novartis, Merck, and Biogen outside the submitted work. M. Scholz 
receives funding from Pfizer Inc. for a project not related to this research. 
C.D. serves as a consultant of Novartis Pharmaceuticals. B.F. has received 
educational speaking fees from Medice. N.J. and P.M.T. are MPIs of a research 
grant from Biogen Inc. for work unrelated to the contents of this manuscript. 
D.J.W. received funding from the Stroke Foundation/British Heart Foundation. 
D.J.S. has received consultancy honoraria from Discovery Vitality, Johnson & 
Johnson, Kanna, L’Oreal, Lundbeck, Orion, Sanofi, Servier, Takeda, and Vistagen. 
H.H. received funding from MRC, Wellcome Trust, and NIHR UCLH BRC. H.J.G. has 
received travel grants and speaker’s honoraria from Fresenius Medical Care, 
Neuraxpharm, and Janssen Cilag as well as research funding from Fresenius 
Medical Care.


Sci Rep. 2024 Apr 10;14(1):8441. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-59013-7.

Longitudinal markers of cerebral amyloid angiopathy and related inflammation in 
rTg-DI rats.

Schrader JM(1), Xu F(1), Agostinucci KJ(1), DaSilva NA(2), Van Nostrand WE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, George & Anne Ryan 
Institute for Neuroscience, University of Rhode Island, 130 Flagg Road, 
Kingston, Rhode Island, 02881, USA.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry, Brown 
University, Providence, Rhode Island, 02912, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, George & Anne Ryan 
Institute for Neuroscience, University of Rhode Island, 130 Flagg Road, 
Kingston, Rhode Island, 02881, USA. wvannostrand@uri.edu.

Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a prevalent vascular dementia and common 
comorbidity of Alzheimer's disease (AD). While it is known that vascular 
fibrillar amyloid β (Aβ) deposits leads to vascular deterioration and can drive 
parenchymal CAA related inflammation (CAA-ri), underlying mechanisms of CAA 
pathology remain poorly understood. Here, we conducted brain regional proteomic 
analysis of early and late disease stages in the rTg-DI CAA rat model to gain 
molecular insight to mechanisms of CAA/CAA-ri progression and identify potential 
brain protein markers of CAA/CAA-ri. Longitudinal brain regional proteomic 
analysis revealed increased differentially expressed proteins (DEP) including 
ANXA3, HTRA1, APOE, CST3, and CLU, shared between the cortex, hippocampus, and 
thalamus, at both stages of disease in rTg-DI rats. Subsequent pathway analysis 
indicated pathway enrichment and predicted activation of TGF-β1, which was 
confirmed by immunolabeling and ELISA. Further, we identified numerous CAA 
related DEPs associate with astrocytes (HSPB1 and MLC1) and microglia (ANXA3, 
SPARC, TGF-β1) not previously associated with astrocytes or microglia in other 
AD models, possibly indicating that they are specific to CAA-ri. Thus, the data 
presented here identify several potential brain protein biomarkers of CAA/CAA-ri 
while providing novel molecular and mechanistic insight to mechanisms of CAA and 
CAA-ri pathological progression and glial cell mediated responses.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-59013-7
PMCID: PMC11006668
PMID: 38600214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


J Extracell Vesicles. 2024 Jan;13(1):e12398. doi: 10.1002/jev2.12398.

Novel method for collecting hippocampal interstitial fluid extracellular 
vesicles (EV(ISF) ) reveals sex-dependent changes in microglial EV proteome in 
response to Aβ pathology.

Pait MC(1), Kaye SD(1), Su Y(2), Kumar A(2), Singh S(2), Gironda SC(1), Vincent 
S(1), Anwar M(1), Carroll CM(1), Snipes JA(1), Lee J(3)(4), Furdui CM(3)(4)(5), 
Deep G(2)(5)(6)(7), Macauley SL(1)(7)(8)(9)(10)(11)(12).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology & Pharmacology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(2)Department of Cancer Biology, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, USA.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Molecular Medicine, Wake Forest 
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(4)Proteomics and Metabolomics Shared Resource, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(5)Atrium Health Wake Forest Baptist Comprehensive Cancer Center, Wake Forest 
School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(6)Center for Research on Substance Use and Addiction, Wake Forest School of 
Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(7)J Paul Sticht Center for Healthy Aging and Alzheimer's Prevention, Wake 
Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(8)Internal Medicine, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, USA.
(9)Alzheimer's Disease Research Center, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(10)Center for Diabetes and Metabolism, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(11)Cardiovascular Sciences Center, Wake Forest School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.
(12)Department of Physiology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, Kentucky, USA.

Update of
    bioRxiv. 2023 Mar 12:2023.03.10.532133. doi: 10.1101/2023.03.10.532133.

Brain-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) play an active role in Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), relaying important physiological information about their host 
tissues. The internal cargo of EVs is protected from degradation, making EVs 
attractive AD biomarkers. However, it is unclear how circulating EVs relate to 
EVs isolated from disease-vulnerable brain regions. We developed a novel method 
for collecting EVs from the hippocampal interstitial fluid (ISF) of live mice. 
EVs (EVISF ) were isolated via ultracentrifugation and characterized by 
nanoparticle tracking analysis, immunogold labelling, and flow cytometry. Mass 
spectrometry and proteomic analyses were performed on EVISF cargo. EVISF were 
40-150 nm in size and expressed CD63, CD9, and CD81. Using a model of cerebral 
amyloidosis (e.g., APPswe, PSEN1dE9 mice), we found protein concentration 
increased but protein diversity decreased with Aβ deposition. Genotype, age, and 
Aβ deposition modulated proteostasis- and immunometabolic-related pathways. 
Changes in the microglial EVISF proteome were sexually dimorphic and associated 
with a differential response of plaque associated microglia. We found that 
female APP/PS1 mice have more amyloid plaques, less plaque associated microglia, 
and a less robust- and diverse- EVISF microglial proteome. Thus, in vivo 
microdialysis is a novel technique for collecting EVISF and offers a unique 
opportunity to explore the role of EVs in AD.

© 2024 The Authors. Journal of Extracellular Vesicles published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC on behalf of International Society for Extracellular Vesicles.

DOI: 10.1002/jev2.12398
PMCID: PMC10774707
PMID: 38191961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: S.L.M. served as a consultant for Denali 
Therapeutics, which has no influence or contribution to the work presented in 
this manuscript. G.D. is the founder of LiBiCo, which has no influence or 
contribution to the work presented in this manuscript.


Alzheimers Dement. 2024 Feb;20(2):1250-1267. doi: 10.1002/alz.13507. Epub 2023 
Nov 20.

Sex-specific genetic architecture of late-life memory performance.

Eissman JM(1)(2), Archer DB(1)(2), Mukherjee S(3), Lee ML(3), Choi SE(3), 
Scollard P(3), Trittschuh EH(4)(5), Mez JB(6), Bush WS(7), Kunkle BW(8), Naj 
AC(9)(10), Gifford KA(1); Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) | 
Alzheimer's Disease Genetics Consortium (ADGC) | The Alzheimer's Disease 
Sequencing Project (ADSP); Cuccaro ML(8), Cruchaga C(11)(12), Pericak-Vance 
MA(8), Farrer LA(6)(13)(14), Wang LS(10), Schellenberg GD(10), Mayeux 
RP(15)(16)(17), Haines JL(7), Jefferson AL(1), Kukull WA(18), Keene CD(19), 
Saykin AJ(20)(21), Thompson PM(22), Martin ER(8), Bennett DA(23), Barnes LL(23), 
Schneider JA(23), Crane PK(3), Hohman TJ(1)(2), Dumitrescu L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Memory & Alzheimer's Center, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(2)Vanderbilt Genetics Institute, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, 
Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(4)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(5)VA Puget Sound Health Care System, GRECC, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(6)Department of Neurology, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of 
Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(7)Cleveland Institute for Computational Biology, Department of Population and 
Quantitative Health Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.
(8)John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, Florida, USA.
(9)Department of Biostatistics, Epidemiology, and Informatics, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(10)Penn Neurodegeneration Genomics Center, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.
(11)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St 
Louis, Missouri, USA.
(12)NeuroGenomics and Informatics Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, USA.
(13)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(14)Department of Medicine (Biomedical Genetics), Boston University Chobanian & 
Avedisian School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(15)Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(16)The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and The Aging Brain, 
Columbia University, New York, New York, USA.
(17)The Institute for Genomic Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center and 
The New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York, New York, USA.
(18)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(19)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA.
(20)Department of Radiology and Imaging Services, Indiana University School of 
Medicine, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(21)Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, School of Medicine, Indiana 
University, Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.
(22)Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.
(23)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.

BACKGROUND: Women demonstrate a memory advantage when cognitively healthy yet 
lose this advantage to men in Alzheimer's disease. However, the genetic 
underpinnings of this sex difference in memory performance remain unclear.
METHODS: We conducted the largest sex-aware genetic study on late-life memory to 
date (Nmales  = 11,942; Nfemales  = 15,641). Leveraging harmonized memory 
composite scores from four cohorts of cognitive aging and AD, we performed 
sex-stratified and sex-interaction genome-wide association studies in 24,216 
non-Hispanic White and 3367 non-Hispanic Black participants.
RESULTS: We identified three sex-specific loci (rs67099044-CBLN2, 
rs719070-SCHIP1/IQCJ-SCHIP), including an X-chromosome locus 
(rs5935633-EGL6/TCEANC/OFD1), that associated with memory. Additionally, we 
identified heparan sulfate signaling as a sex-specific pathway and found 
sex-specific genetic correlations between memory and cardiovascular, immune, and 
education traits.
DISCUSSION: This study showed memory is highly and comparably heritable across 
sexes, as well as highlighted novel sex-specific genes, pathways, and genetic 
correlations that related to late-life memory.
HIGHLIGHTS: Demonstrated the heritable component of late-life memory is similar 
across sexes. Identified two genetic loci with a sex-interaction with baseline 
memory. Identified an X-chromosome locus associated with memory decline in 
females. Highlighted sex-specific candidate genes and pathways associated with 
memory. Revealed sex-specific shared genetic architecture between memory and 
complex traits.

© 2023 The Authors. Alzheimer's & Dementia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on 
behalf of Alzheimer's Association.

DOI: 10.1002/alz.13507
PMCID: PMC10917043
PMID: 37984853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: T.J.H. is a member of the scientific advisory 
board for Vivid Genomics, and a Senior Associate Editor for Alzheimer's & 
Dementia. The authors declare no conflicts of interest. Author disclosures are 
available in the supporting information.


J Alzheimers Dis. 2023;96(2):705-723. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230559.

Exploring Shared Biomarkers of Myocardial Infarction and Alzheimer's Disease via 
Single-Cell/Nucleus Sequencing and Bioinformatics Analysis.

Xue W(1), He W(1), Yan M(1), Zhao H(2), Pi J(3).

Author information:
(1)Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Disease, The Eighth Clinical Medical College of 
Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine, Foshan, Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND: Patients are at increased risk of dementia, including Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), after myocardial infarction (MI), but the biological link between 
MI and AD is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To understand the association between the pathogenesis of MI and AD 
and identify common biomarkers of both diseases.
METHODS: Using public databases, we identified common biomarkers of MI and AD. 
Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) regression and 
protein-protein interaction (PPI) network were performed to further screen hub 
biomarkers. Functional enrichment analyses were performed on the hub biomarkers. 
Single-cell/nucleus analysis was utilized to further analyze the hub biomarkers 
at the cellular level in carotid atherosclerosis and AD datasets. Motif 
enrichment analysis was used to screen key transcription factors.
RESULTS: 26 common differentially expressed genes were screened between MI and 
AD. Function enrichment analyses showed that these differentially expressed 
genes were mainly associated with inflammatory pathways. A key gene, Regulator 
of G-protein Signaling 1 (RGS1), was obtained by LASSO regression and PPI 
network. RGS1 was confirmed to mainly express in macrophages and microglia 
according to single-cell/nucleus analysis. The difference in expression of RGS1 
in macrophages and microglia between disease groups and controls was 
statistically significant (p < 0.0001). The expression of RGS1 in the disease 
groups was upregulated with the differentiation of macrophages and microglia. 
RelA was a key transcription factor regulating RGS1.
CONCLUSION: Macrophages and microglia are involved in the inflammatory response 
of MI and AD. RGS1 may be a key biomarker in this process.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230559
PMCID: PMC10657707
PMID: 37840493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interest to 
report.


Sci Data. 2023 Sep 29;10(1):666. doi: 10.1038/s41597-023-02512-5.

Shared metabolic shifts in endothelial cells in stroke and Alzheimer's disease 
revealed by integrated analysis.

Guo G(1)(2)(3), Fan L(1)(4), Yan Y(3)(4), Xu Y(3)(4), Deng Z(3), Tian M(3), Geng 
Y(3)(5), Xia Z(6)(7)(8), Xu Y(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China.
(2)NHC Key Laboratory of Prevention and treatment of Cerebrovascular Diseases, 
Zhengzhou, China.
(3)Clinical Systems Biology Laboratories, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(4)Academy of Medical Sciences of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China.
(5)Department of Endocrinology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China. zxia2018@zzu.edu.cn.
(7)NHC Key Laboratory of Prevention and treatment of Cerebrovascular Diseases, 
Zhengzhou, China. zxia2018@zzu.edu.cn.
(8)Clinical Systems Biology Laboratories, the First Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou, China. zxia2018@zzu.edu.cn.
(9)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou 
University, Zhengzhou, Henan, China. xuyuming@zzu.edu.cn.
(10)NHC Key Laboratory of Prevention and treatment of Cerebrovascular Diseases, 
Zhengzhou, China. xuyuming@zzu.edu.cn.

Since metabolic dysregulation is a hallmark of both stroke and Alzheimer's 
disease (AD), mining shared metabolic patterns in these diseases will help to 
identify their possible pathogenic mechanisms and potential intervention 
targets. However, a systematic integration analysis of the metabolic networks of 
the these diseases is still lacking. In this study, we integrated single-cell 
RNA sequencing datasets of ischemic stroke (IS), hemorrhagic stroke (HS) and AD 
models to construct metabolic flux profiles at the single-cell level. We 
discovered that the three disorders cause shared metabolic shifts in endothelial 
cells. These altered metabolic modules were mainly enriched in the 
transporter-related pathways and were predicted to potentially lead to a 
decrease in metabolites such as pyruvate and fumarate. We further found that 
Lef1, Elk3 and Fosl1 may be upstream transcriptional regulators causing 
metabolic shifts and may be possible targets for interventions that halt the 
course of neurodegeneration.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41597-023-02512-5
PMCID: PMC10542331
PMID: 37775708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


Arch Toxicol. 2023 Oct;97(10):2499-2574. doi: 10.1007/s00204-023-03562-9. Epub 
2023 Aug 19.

Reactive oxygen species, toxicity, oxidative stress, and antioxidants: chronic 
diseases and aging.

Jomova K(1), Raptova R(2), Alomar SY(3), Alwasel SH(3), Nepovimova E(4), Kuca 
K(4), Valko M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Constantine the 
Philosopher University in Nitra, Nitra, 949 74, Slovakia.
(2)Faculty of Chemical and Food Technology, Slovak University of Technology, 
Bratislava, 812 37, Slovakia.
(3)Zoology Department, College of Science, King Saud University, 11451, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Sciences, University of Hradec Kralove, 
50005, Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.
(5)Faculty of Chemical and Food Technology, Slovak University of Technology, 
Bratislava, 812 37, Slovakia. marian.valko@stuba.sk.

A physiological level of oxygen/nitrogen free radicals and non-radical reactive 
species (collectively known as ROS/RNS) is termed oxidative eustress or "good 
stress" and is characterized by low to mild levels of oxidants involved in the 
regulation of various biochemical transformations such as carboxylation, 
hydroxylation, peroxidation, or modulation of signal transduction pathways such 
as Nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB), Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade, 
phosphoinositide-3-kinase, nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) 
and other processes. Increased levels of ROS/RNS, generated from both endogenous 
(mitochondria, NADPH oxidases) and/or exogenous sources (radiation, certain 
drugs, foods, cigarette smoking, pollution) result in a harmful condition termed 
oxidative stress ("bad stress"). Although it is widely accepted, that many 
chronic diseases are multifactorial in origin, they share oxidative stress as a 
common denominator. Here we review the importance of oxidative stress and the 
mechanisms through which oxidative stress contributes to the pathological states 
of an organism. Attention is focused on the chemistry of ROS and RNS (e.g. 
superoxide radical, hydrogen peroxide, hydroxyl radicals, peroxyl radicals, 
nitric oxide, peroxynitrite), and their role in oxidative damage of DNA, 
proteins, and membrane lipids. Quantitative and qualitative assessment of 
oxidative stress biomarkers is also discussed. Oxidative stress contributes to 
the pathology of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, neurological 
disorders (Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, Down syndrome), psychiatric 
diseases (depression, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder), renal disease, lung 
disease (chronic pulmonary obstruction, lung cancer), and aging. The concerted 
action of antioxidants to ameliorate the harmful effect of oxidative stress is 
achieved by antioxidant enzymes (Superoxide dismutases-SODs, catalase, 
glutathione peroxidase-GPx), and small molecular weight antioxidants (vitamins C 
and E, flavonoids, carotenoids, melatonin, ergothioneine, and others). Perhaps 
one of the most effective low molecular weight antioxidants is vitamin E, the 
first line of defense against the peroxidation of lipids. A promising approach 
appears to be the use of certain antioxidants (e.g. flavonoids), showing weak 
prooxidant properties that may boost cellular antioxidant systems and thus act 
as preventive anticancer agents. Redox metal-based enzyme mimetic compounds as 
potential pharmaceutical interventions and sirtuins as promising therapeutic 
targets for age-related diseases and anti-aging strategies are discussed.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-023-03562-9
PMCID: PMC10475008
PMID: 37597078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We declare no competing interests.


J Alzheimers Dis. 2024;99(s2):S187-S234. doi: 10.3233/JAD-230300.

Cerebrovascular miRNAs Track Early Development of Alzheimer's Disease and Target 
Molecular Markers of Angiogenesis and Blood Flow Regulation.

Chum PP(1), Bishara MA(1), Solis SR(1), Behringer EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Basic Sciences, Loma Linda University, Loma Linda, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with impaired cerebral 
circulation which underscores diminished delivery of blood oxygen and nutrients 
to and throughout the brain. In the 3xTg-AD mouse model, we have recently found 
that > 10 cerebrovascular miRNAs pertaining to vascular permeability, 
angiogenesis, and inflammation (e.g., let-7d, miR-99a, miR-132, miR-133a, 
miR-151-5p, and miR-181a) track early development of AD. Further, 
endothelial-specific miRNAs (miR-126-3p, miR-23a/b, miR-27a) alter with onset of 
overall AD pathology relative to stability of smooth muscle/pericyte-specific 
miRNAs (miR-143, miR-145).
OBJECTIVE: We tested the hypothesis that cerebrovascular miRNAs indicating AD 
pathology share mRNA targets that regulate key endothelial cell functions such 
as angiogenesis, vascular permeability, and blood flow regulation.
METHODS: As detected by NanoString nCounter miRNA Expression panel for 3xTg-AD 
mice, 61 cerebrovascular miRNAs and respective mRNA targets were examined using 
Ingenuity Pathway Analysis for canonical Cardiovascular (Cardio) and Nervous 
System (Neuro) Signaling.
RESULTS: The number of targets regulated per miRNA were 21±2 and 33±3 for the 
Cardio and Neuro pathways respectively, whereby 14±2 targets overlap among 
pathways. Endothelial miRNAs primarily target members of the PDE, PDGF, SMAD, 
and VEGF families. Individual candidates regulated by≥4 miRNAs that best mark AD 
pathology presence in 3xTg-AD mice include CFL2, GRIN2B, PDGFB, SLC6A1, SMAD3, 
SYT3, and TNFRSF11B.
CONCLUSION: miRNAs selective for regulation of endothelial function and 
respective downstream mRNA targets support a molecular basis for dysregulated 
cerebral blood flow regulation coupled with enhanced cell growth, proliferation, 
and inflammation.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-230300
PMCID: PMC10787821
PMID: 37458037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors have no 
conflict of interest to report.


Nat Neurosci. 2023 Aug;26(8):1365-1378. doi: 10.1038/s41593-023-01377-6. Epub 
2023 Jul 10.

Heart failure-induced cognitive dysfunction is mediated by intracellular Ca(2+) 
leak through ryanodine receptor type 2.

Dridi H(1), Liu Y(2), Reiken S(2), Liu X(2), Argyrousi EK(3), Yuan Q(2), Miotto 
MC(2), Sittenfeld L, Meddar A, Soni RK(4), Arancio O(3)(5)(6), Lacampagne 
A(7)(8), Marks AR(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Clyde and Helen Wu Center 
for Molecular Cardiology, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & 
Surgeons, New York, NY, USA. dh2756@cumc.columbia.edu.
(2)Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Clyde and Helen Wu Center 
for Molecular Cardiology, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & 
Surgeons, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(4)Proteomics and Macromolecular Crystallography Shared Resource, Herbert Irving 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University, New York, NY, 
USA.
(7)PHYMEDEXP, University of Montpellier, CNRS, INSERM, CHU Montpellier, 
Montpellier, France.
(8)LIA1185 CNRS, Montpellier, France.
(9)Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics, Clyde and Helen Wu Center 
for Molecular Cardiology, Columbia University Vagelos College of Physicians & 
Surgeons, New York, NY, USA. arm42@cumc.columbia.edu.

Cognitive dysfunction (CD) in heart failure (HF) adversely affects treatment 
compliance and quality of life. Although ryanodine receptor type 2 (RyR2) has 
been linked to cardiac muscle dysfunction, its role in CD in HF remains unclear. 
Here, we show in hippocampal neurons from individuals and mice with HF that the 
RyR2/intracellular Ca2+ release channels were subjected to post-translational 
modification (PTM) and were leaky. RyR2 PTM included protein kinase A 
phosphorylation, oxidation, nitrosylation and depletion of the stabilizing 
subunit calstabin2. RyR2 PTM was caused by hyper-adrenergic signaling and 
activation of the transforming growth factor-beta pathway. HF mice treated with 
a RyR2 stabilizer drug (S107), beta blocker (propranolol) or transforming growth 
factor-beta inhibitor (SD-208), or genetically engineered mice resistant to RyR2 
Ca2+ leak (RyR2-p.Ser2808Ala), were protected against HF-induced CD. Taken 
together, we propose that HF is a systemic illness driven by intracellular Ca2+ 
leak that includes cardiogenic dementia.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41593-023-01377-6
PMCID: PMC10400432
PMID: 37429912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Columbia University and A.R.M. own stock in 
ARMGO, a company developing compounds targeting RyR and have patents on Rycals. 
The remaining authors declare no competing interests.


