Front Immunol. 2024 Mar 19;15:1354578. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1354578. 
eCollection 2024.

Case report: Successful treatment of acute generalized pustular psoriasis with 
multiple comorbidities with oral tacrolimus.

Zhao M(1), Huang F(2), Tang L(1), Zhou X(1), Zhang M(2), Liao M(2), Liu L(2), 
Huang M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Cosmetology, Chongqing Hospital of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Chongqing, China.
(2)College of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.

Acute generalized pustular psoriasis (GPP) is a serious illness. Despite various 
treatment methods, there is still lack of effective treatment plans for 
refractory cases with multiple comorbidities. This case report presents a 
67-year-old woman with acute GPP, stage 4 chronic kidney disease (CKD), type 2 
diabetes, and cardiovascular disease, in whom skin symptom disappearance and 
kidney function improvement were observed after the use of oral tacrolimus as 
the sole therapy. This is the first report on the application of tacrolimus in 
the treatment of acute GPP, especially refractory acute GPP. The successful 
treatment indicates that there are shared immune pathways between acute GPP and 
CKD, and the pathways can be interdicted by tacrolimus. Further studies are 
needed to optimize the therapy to maximize efficacy and minimize toxicity.

Copyright © 2024 Zhao, Huang, Tang, Zhou, Zhang, Liao, Liu and Huang.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2024.1354578
PMCID: PMC10985253
PMID: 38566985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2024 Jun 1;19(6):813-820. doi: 
10.2215/CJN.0000000000000361. Epub 2023 Oct 30.

From Cardiorenal Syndrome to Chronic Cardiovascular and Kidney Disorder: A 
Conceptual Transition.

Zoccali C(1)(2), Mallamaci F(3), Halimi JM(4), Rossignol P(5)(6), Sarafidis 
P(7), De Caterina R(8), Giugliano R(9), Zannad F(10).

Author information:
(1)Renal Research Institute, New York and Institute of Molecular Biology and 
Genetics (Biogem), Ariano Irpino, Italy.
(2)Associazione Ipertensione Nefrologia Trapianto Renal (IPNET), c/o Nefrologia, 
Grande Ospedale Metropolitano, Reggio Calabria, Italy.
(3)Nefrologia and CNR Unit, Grande Ospedale Metropolitano, Reggio Calabria, 
Italy.
(4)Centre Hospitalier Régional Universitaire de Tours, Tours, France.
(5)Inserm, Centre d'Investigations Cliniques-1433, Inserm U1116, CHRU Nancy, 
F-CRIN INI-CRCT, Université de Lorraine, Nancy, France.
(6)Department of Medical Specialties-Nephrology Hemodialysis, Princess Grace 
Hospital, Monaco Private Hemodialysis Centre, Monaco, Monaco.
(7)Department of Nephrology, Hippokration Hospital, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(8)University of Pisa and Cardiology Division, Pisa University Hospital, Pisa, 
Italy.
(9)Fondazione Villaserena per la Ricerca, Pescara, Italy.
(10)Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.

The association between cardiac and kidney dysfunction has received attention 
over the past two decades. A putatively unique syndrome, the cardiorenal 
syndrome, distinguishing five subtypes on the basis of the chronology of cardiac 
and kidney events, has been widely adopted. This review discusses the 
methodologic and practical problems inherent to the current classification of 
cardiorenal syndrome. The term "disorder" is more appropriate than the term 
"syndrome" to describe concomitant cardiovascular and kidney dysfunction and/or 
damage. Indeed, the term disorder designates a disruption induced by disease 
states to the normal function of organs or organ systems. We apply Occam's razor 
to the chronology-based construct to arrive at a simple definition on the basis 
of the coexistence of cardiovascular disease and CKD, the chronic 
cardiovascular-kidney disorder (CCKD). This conceptual framework builds upon the 
fact that cardiovascular and CKD share common risk factors and pathophysiologic 
mechanisms. Biological changes set in motion by kidney dysfunction accelerate 
cardiovascular disease progression and vice versa . Depending on various 
combinations of risk factors and precipitating conditions, patients with CCKD 
may present initially with cardiovascular disease or with hallmarks of CKD. 
Treatment targeting cardiovascular or kidney dysfunction may improve the 
outcomes of both. The portfolio of interventions targeting the 
kidney-cardiovascular continuum is in an expanding phase. In the medium term, 
applying the new omics sciences may unravel new therapeutic targets and further 
improve the therapy of CCKD. Trials based on cardiovascular and kidney composite 
end points are an attractive and growing area. Targeting pathways common to 
cardiovascular and kidney diseases will help prevent the adverse health effects 
of CCKD.

Copyright © 2023 by the American Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.0000000000000361
PMCID: PMC11168830
PMID: 37902772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: R. De Caterina reports fees, honoraria, and 
research funding from Amarin, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS/Pfizer, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Daiichi-Sankyo, Guidotti, Menarini, Merck, Milestone, Novartis, 
Noventure, Portola, Roche, and Sanofi-Aventis; research funding from Amarin, 
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS/Pfizer, Daiichi-Sankyo, Guidotti, Menarini, 
Merck, Milestone, Novartis, Noventure, Portola, Roche, and Sanofi-Aventis; fees 
and honoraria from Amarin, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS/Pfizer, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Daiichi-Sankyo, Guidotti, Menarini, Merck, Milestone, Novartis, 
Noventure, Portola, Roche, and Sanofi-Aventis; and speaker fees from Amarin, 
Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, BMS/Pfizer, Boehringer Ingelheim, Daiichi-Sankyo, 
Guidotti, Menarini, Merck, Milestone, Novartis, Noventure, Portola, Roche, and 
Sanofi-Aventis. R. Giugliano reports consultancy for Artivion, Inc., Beckman 
Coulter, Daiichi Sankyo, Gilead, Inari, Inventiva, PhaseBio Pharmaceuticals, 
Samsung, and Sanofi Aventis; research funding from Amgen, Anthos Therapeutics, 
Daiichi Sankyo, and Ionis; and honoraria from Amgen, Daiichi Sankyo, Dr. Reddy's 
Laboratories, Medical Education Resources (MER), Menarini, SAJA Pharmaceuticals, 
Servier, and SUMMEET. J.-M. Halimi reports consultancy for Alexion, AstraZeneca, 
Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim France, Servier, and Vifor Fresenius; research 
funding from AstraZeneca; and honoraria from Alexion, AstraZeneca, Bayer, 
Boehringer Ingelheim France, MSD, Sanofi, Servier, and Vifor. F. Mallamaci 
reports consultancy for Fresenius; honoraria from Fresenius; and advisory or 
leadership roles as Associate Editor Clinical Kidney Journal, Member of the 
Editorial Board of the International Journal of Nephrology, Member of the 
Editorial Board of Turk Nefroloji, the Official Journal of the Turkish Society 
of Nephrology, Past Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Nephrology, and Theme 
Editor of Nephrology Dialysis and Transplantation. Because F. Mallamaci is an 
editor of the Clinical Journal of the American Society of Nephrology, she was 
not involved in the peer review process for this manuscript. Another editor 
oversaw the peer review and decision-making process for this manuscript. P. 
Rossignol reports personal fees from AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
CinCor, Idorsia, KBP, Novo Nordisk, Sanofi, Sequana Medical, Servier, and Vifor; 
ownership interest in CardioRenal (stocks as a cofounder) and G3P (stock 
options); research funding from Relypsa Inc., a Vifor Pharma Group Company, and 
Vifor Fresenius Medical Care Renal Pharma; and patents or royalties as a 
CardioRenal cofounder, a company developing a home potassium self-monitoring 
device. P. Rossignol reports advisory or leadership role for ESH: “hypertension 
and the kidney” working group board member since 2016; KDIDO executive committee 
member since 2023; WG board member HFA, Cardio renal (2016–) and translational 
2016–2020; WG board member Eurecam ERA-EDTA 2021–2023; and WG on biomarkers 
board member HFA, 2020–2022. P. Sarafidis reports consultancy for AstraZeneca, 
Bayer, Healthink, Innovis Pharma, Menarini, Primeview, and Recor Medical; 
research funding from AstraZeneca, Boehringer, Elpen Pharmaceuticals, and 
Servier; honoraria from Astellas, AstraZeneca, Bayer, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
Genesis Pharma, Menarini, Peervoice, Sanofi, Springer, and Winmedica; advisory 
or leadership role as a Council Member of European Renal Association; and role 
on Editorial Boards for American Journal of Nephrology, Hellenic Nephrology, 
Journal of Human Hypertension, and Nephrology Dialysis Transplantation. F. 
Zannad reports consultancy for 89Bio, Applied Therapeutics, Bayer, BMS, 
Boehringer, Cardior, Cellprothera, Cereno pharmaceutical, CEVA, CVRx, KBP, 
Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Otsuka, Owkin, Pfizer, Roche Diagnostics, 
Servier, and US2.AI; ownership interest in CardioRenal, Cereno, CVCT, and 
Eshmoun; honoraria from Applied Therapeutics, Bayer, BMS, Boehringer, Cardior, 
Cellprothera, Cereno pharmaceutical, CEVA, CVRx, KPB, Merck, Novartis, Novo 
Nordisk, Roche Diagnostics, and Servier; advisory or leadership roles for 89Bio, 
Applied Therapeutics, Bayer, BMS, Boehringer, Cardior, Cellprothera, Cereno 
pharmaceutical, CEVA, CVRx, KPB, Merck, Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Otsuka, Owkin, 
Pfizer, Roche Diagnostics, Servier, and US2.AI; and speakers bureau for Bayer 
and Boehringer Ingelheim. C. Zoccali reports a consultancy agreement with 
Fresenius Medical Care, Europe.


J Transl Med. 2023 Oct 9;21(1):706. doi: 10.1186/s12967-023-04584-8.

The complexity of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD), hypoxic, and aryl 
hydrocarbon receptor cell signaling in chronic kidney disease.

Curran CS(1), Kopp JB(2).

Author information:
(1)National Heart Lung and Blood Institute, NIH, BG 10 RM 2C135, 10 Center 
Drive, Bethesda, MD, 20814, USA. colleen.curran@nih.gov.
(2)Kidney Disease Section, NIDDK, NIH, Bethesda, MD, USA.

Early-stage detection of chronic kidney diseases (CKD) is important to treatment 
that may slow and occasionally halt CKD progression. CKD of diverse etiologies 
share similar histologic patterns of glomerulosclerosis, tubular atrophy, and 
interstitial fibrosis. Macro-vascular disease and micro-vascular disease promote 
tissue ischemia, contributing to injury. Tissue ischemia promotes hypoxia, and 
this in turn activates the hypoxia-inducible transcription factors (HIFs). 
HIF-1α and HIF-2α, share a dimer partner, HIF-1β, with the aryl hydrocarbon 
receptor (AHR) and are each activated in CKD and associated with kidney cellular 
nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD) depletion. The Preiss-Handler, salvage, 
and de novo pathways regulate NAD biosynthesis and gap-junctions regulate NAD 
cellular retention. In the Preiss-Handler pathway, niacin forms NAD. Niacin also 
exhibits crosstalk with HIF and AHR cell signals in the regulation of insulin 
sensitivity, which is a complication in CKD. Dysregulated enzyme activity in the 
NAD de novo pathway increases the levels of circulating tryptophan metabolites 
that activate AHR, resulting in poly-ADP ribose polymerase activation, 
thrombosis, endothelial dysfunction, and immunosuppression. Therapeutically, 
metabolites from the NAD salvage pathway increase NAD production and subsequent 
sirtuin deacetylase activity, resulting in reduced activation of retinoic 
acid-inducible gene I, p53, NF-κB and SMAD2 but increased activation of FOXO1, 
PGC-1α, and DNA methyltransferase-1. These post-translational responses may also 
be initiated through non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), which are additionally altered in 
CKD. Nanoparticles traverse biological systems and can penetrate almost all 
tissues as disease biomarkers and drug delivery carriers. Targeted delivery of 
non-coding RNAs or NAD metabolites with nanoparticles may enable the development 
of more effective diagnostics and therapies to treat CKD.

© 2023. BioMed Central Ltd., part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-023-04584-8
PMCID: PMC10563221
PMID: 37814337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


Chin J Integr Med. 2023 Dec;29(12):1077-1086. doi: 10.1007/s11655-023-3642-z. 
Epub 2023 Aug 2.

Guanxin V Relieves Ventricular Remodeling by Inhibiting Inflammation: 
Implication from Virtual Screening, Systematic Pharmacology, Molecular Docking, 
and Experimental Validation.

Liang B(1)(2), Zhang XX(3), Gu N(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Nanjing Hospital of Chinese Medicine Affiliated to 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210022, China.
(2)Department of Nephrology, the Key Laboratory for the Prevention and Treatment 
of Chronic Kidney Disease of Chongqing, Chongqing Clinical Research Center of 
Kidney and Urology Diseases, Xinqiao Hospital, Army Medical University (Third 
Military Medical University), Chongqing, 400037, China.
(3)School of Chinese Medicine, School of Integrated Chinese and Western 
Medicine, Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210046, China.
(4)Department of Cardiology, Nanjing Hospital of Chinese Medicine Affiliated to 
Nanjing University of Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, 210022, China. 
guning@njucm.edu.cn.

OBJECTIVE: To reveal the anti-inflammatory mechanism of Guanxin V, which is 
prescribed for ventricular remodeling in clinical practice.
METHODS: Guanxin V-, ventricular remodeling-, and inflammation-related targets 
were obtained through an integrated strategy of virtual screening and systematic 
pharmacology, and then the shared targets were visualised with a Venn diagram. 
Guanxin V network and the protein-protein interaction network were drawn, and 
enrichment analysis was conducted. Finally, the main results obtained from the 
integrated strategy were validated by molecular docking and in vivo experiments.
RESULTS: A total of 251, 11,425, and 15,246 Guanxin V-, ventricular remodeling-, 
and inflammation-related targets were acquired, respectively. Then, 211 shared 
targets were considered to contribute to the mechanism of ventricular remodeling 
treated by Guanxin V. Guanxin network and the protein-protein interaction 
network were drawn, and enrichment analysis showed some cardiovascular-related 
biological processes and signaling pathways. Molecular docking revealed that the 
Guanxin V-derived compounds could align with key targets. Final in vivo 
experiments proved that Guanxin V reverses ventricular remodeling by inhibiting 
inflammation.
CONCLUSION: Guanxin V relieves ventricular remodeling by regulating 
inflammation, which provides new ideas for the anti-ventricular remodeling 
mechanism of Guanxin V.

© 2023. The Chinese Journal of Integrated Traditional and Western Medicine Press 
and Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11655-023-3642-z
PMID: 37528325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Cardiovasc Res. 2023 Sep 5;119(11):2106-2116. doi: 10.1093/cvr/cvad060.

The association between kidney function, cognitive function, and structural 
brain abnormalities in community-dwelling individuals aged 50+ is mediated by 
age and biomarkers of cardiovascular disease.

Nowak N(1)(2), De Looze C(1)(2), O'Halloran A(1)(2), Kenny RA(1)(2)(3), Sexton 
DJ(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing, Trinity College Dublin, D02 R590, 
Dublin 2, Ireland.
(2)School of Medicine, Trinity College Dublin, College Green, D02 PN40, Dublin 
2, Ireland.
(3)Saint James Hospital, Dublin, D08 NYH1, Dublin 8, Ireland.

AIMS: Cognitive impairment has been associated with kidney function and chronic 
kidney disease. Whether this association is due to accelerated cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) or an independent specific kidney function effect related to 
toxins is unclear. We investigated the impact of an array of clinical factors, 
inflammatory biomarkers, and cardiovascular biomarkers on the association 
between kidney function, cognitive function, and structural brain abnormalities.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used data from the first and third waves of the TILDA 
Study, a population-representative prospective cohort of Irish adults aged 50 
years and over, based on stratified random sampling (n = 3774). The MRI 
sub-study included participants who consented to MRI brain imaging in addition 
to the health assessment. Multivariable linear and mixed-effect longitudinal 
regression models were fitted separately for each kidney marker/estimated 
glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) equation after adjusting for baseline age and 
demographics, clinical vascular risk factors, and biomarkers. Unadjusted 
analyses showed an association between low eGFR, cognitive dysfunction, and 
cognitive decline (P < 0.001 for all kidney markers). Kidney function markers 
were also associated with white matter disease [OR = 3.32 (95% CI: 1.11, 9.98)], 
total grey matter volume (β = -0.17, 95% CI -0.27 to -0.07), and regional grey 
matter volumes within areas particularly susceptible to hypoxia (P < 0.001 for 
all). All the associations decreased after adjusting for age and were also 
diminished after adjusting for CVD biomarkers. Age and CVD-biomarker score were 
significant mediators of the adjusted associations between eGFR and cognitive 
status. These results remained consistent for cross-sectional and longitudinal 
outcomes and specific cognitive domains.
CONCLUSION: Decreased kidney function was associated with cerebrovascular 
disease. The association appeared to be mediated predominantly by age and the 
combination of CVD markers [namely N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide 
(NT-proBNP) and Growth Differentiation Factor 15 (GDF15)], supporting the idea 
that shared biological pathways underline both diseases. Further mechanistic 
studies of the specific molecular mechanisms that lead to both kidney and 
cognitive decline are warranted.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cvr/cvad060
PMCID: PMC10683948
PMID: 37052588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


Kidney Blood Press Res. 2023;48(1):28-34. doi: 10.1159/000528130. Epub 2022 Nov 
24.

The Relationship of Uremic Toxin Indoxyl Sulfate and Intestinal Elimination 
Mechanisms in Hemodialysis Patients.

Tomášová A(1), Tichá A(1), Dusilová Sulková S(2), Šafránek R(2), Moučka P(2), 
Chmelařová M(1), Baranová I(1), Párová H(1), Nývltová Z(3), Štochlová K(3), 
Palička V(1), Pavlíková L(1), Zadák Z(1), Hyšpler R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry and Diagnostics, University Hospital 
Hradec Kralove, Faculty of Medicine in Hradec Kralove, Charles University, 
Hradec Kralove, Czechia.
(2)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Faculty of 
Medicine in Hradec Kralove, Charles University, Hradec Kralove, Czechia.
(3)Vyzkumny ustav organickych syntez a.s. (VUOS - Analytika), Rybitvi, Czechia.

INTRODUCTION: High indoxyl sulfate (IS) concentration is a serious problem for 
patients with CKD increasing the risk of cardiovascular diseases and CKD 
progression. Thus, the methods of decreasing the toxin concentrations are highly 
desired. The study aimed to discover the role of selected intestine-related 
factors on IS concentration.
METHODS: We evaluated the impact of ABCG2 and ABCC2 polymorphisms influencing 
activity and protein intake by normalized protein catabolic rate. Additionally, 
we examined the relation of IS and uric acid (UA) that can share common 
elimination transporters. A monocentric, prospective, open cohort pilot study 
was performed on 108 patients undergoing dialysis treatment.
RESULTS: The positive effect of residual diuresis on the reduction of IS levels 
was confirmed (p = 0.005). Also, an increase in IS depending on the dietary 
protein intake was confirmed (p = 0.040). No significant correlation between ABC 
gene polymorphisms was observed either, suggesting the negligible role of ABCG2 
and ABCC2 in the elimination of IS in small bowel. The significant difference 
was observed for UA where ABCG2 421C>A (rs72552713) gene polymorphism was higher 
(505.3 μmol/L) in comparison with a wild-type genotype (360.5 μmol/L).
CONCLUSION: No evidence of bowel elimination pathway via ABCC2 and ABCG2 
transporters was found in renal replacement therapy patients.

© 2022 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000528130
PMID: 36423594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Front Cardiovasc Med. 2022 Sep 20;9:959457. doi: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.959457. 
eCollection 2022.

Distinct role of mitochondrial function and protein kinase C in intimal and 
medial calcification in vitro.

Heuschkel MA(1), Babler A(2), Heyn J(1), van der Vorst EPC(3)(4)(5)(6), Steenman 
M(7), Gesper M(1), Kappel BA(1), Magne D(8), Gouëffic Y(9), Kramann 
R(2)(10)(11), Jahnen-Dechent W(12), Marx N(1), Quillard T(7)(13), Goettsch C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I-Cardiology, Medical Faculty, RWTH Aachen 
University, Aachen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Experimental Medicine and Systems Biology, University Hospital, 
RWTH Aachen, Aachen, Germany.
(3)Interdisciplinary Center for Clinical Research, Institute for Molecular 
Cardiovascular Research, RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany.
(4)Department of Pathology, Cardiovascular Research Institute Maastricht, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, Netherlands.
(5)Institute for Cardiovascular Prevention (IPEK), Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(6)DZHK (German Centre for Cardiovascular Research), Partner Site Munich Heart 
Alliance, Munich, Germany.
(7)L'institut Du Thorax, Inserm UMR 1087, CNRS, INSERM, France and Nantes 
Université, Nantes, France.
(8)ICBMS UMR CNRS 5246, Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France.
(9)Department of Vascular Surgery, Vascular Center, Groupe Hospitalier Paris 
Saint-Joseph, Paris, France.
(10)Department of Nephrology and Clinical Immunology, University Hospital RWTH 
Aachen, Aachen, Germany.
(11)Department of Internal Medicine, Nephrology and Transplantation, Erasmus 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.
(12)Biointerface Laboratory, Helmholtz Institute for Biomedical Engineering, 
RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany.
(13)PHY-OS Laboratory, INSERM UMR 1238, Nantes University of Medicine, Nantes, 
France.

INTRODUCTION: Vascular calcification (VC) is a major risk factor for 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Depending on the location of mineral 
deposition within the arterial wall, VC is classified as intimal and medial 
calcification. Using in vitro mineralization assays, we developed protocols 
triggering both types of calcification in vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) 
following diverging molecular pathways.
MATERIALS AND METHODS AND RESULTS: Human coronary artery SMCs were cultured in 
osteogenic medium (OM) or high calcium phosphate medium (CaP) to induce a 
mineralized extracellular matrix. OM induces osteoblast-like differentiation of 
SMCs-a key process in intimal calcification during atherosclerotic plaque 
remodeling. CaP mimics hyperphosphatemia, associated with chronic kidney 
disease-a risk factor for medial calcification. Transcriptomic analysis revealed 
distinct gene expression profiles of OM and CaP-calcifying SMCs. OM and 
CaP-treated SMCs shared 107 differentially regulated genes related to SMC 
contraction and metabolism. Real-time extracellular efflux analysis demonstrated 
decreased mitochondrial respiration and glycolysis in CaP-treated SMCs compared 
to increased mitochondrial respiration without altered glycolysis in OM-treated 
SMCs. Subsequent kinome and in silico drug repurposing analysis (Connectivity 
Map) suggested a distinct role of protein kinase C (PKC). In vitro validation 
experiments demonstrated that the PKC activators prostratin and ingenol reduced 
calcification triggered by OM and promoted calcification triggered by CaP.
CONCLUSION: Our direct comparison results of two in vitro calcification models 
strengthen previous observations of distinct intracellular mechanisms that 
trigger OM and CaP-induced SMC calcification in vitro. We found a differential 
role of PKC in OM and CaP-calcified SMCs providing new potential cellular and 
molecular targets for pharmacological intervention in VC. Our data suggest that 
the field should limit the generalization of results found in in vitro studies 
using different calcification protocols.

Copyright © 2022 Heuschkel, Babler, Heyn, van der Vorst, Steenman, Gesper, 
Kappel, Magne, Gouëffic, Kramann, Jahnen-Dechent, Marx, Quillard and Goettsch.

DOI: 10.3389/fcvm.2022.959457
PMCID: PMC9530266
PMID: 36204585

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest. The reviewer JE declared a 
shared affiliation with one of the author RK to the handling editor at the time 
of review.


Aging Male. 2022 Dec;25(1):202-216. doi: 10.1080/13685538.2022.2104833.

Impact of COVID 19 on erectile function.

Adeyemi DH(1), Odetayo AF(2)(3), Hamed MA(3)(4)(5), Akhigbe RE(3)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences, College of 
Health Sciences, Osun State University, Nigeria.
(2)Department of Physiology, University of Ilorin, Ilorin, Nigeria.
(3)Reproductive Biology and Toxicology Research Laboratory, Oasis of Grace 
Hospital, Osogbo, Nigeria.
(4)The Brainwill Laboratories, Osogbo, Nigeria.
(5)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences, College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, Nigeria.
(6)Department of Physiology, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology, Ogbomoso, 
Nigeria.

Purpose: COVID-19, a novel infection, presented with several complications, 
including socioeconomical and reproductive health challenges such as erectile 
dysfunction (ED). The present review summarizes the available shreds of evidence 
on the impact of COVID-19 on ED.Materials and methods: All published 
peer-reviewed articles from the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak to date, relating 
to ED, were reviewed. Results: Available pieces of evidence that ED is a 
consequence of COVID-19 are convincing. COVID-19 and ED share common risk 
factors such as disruption of vascular integrity, cardiovascular disease (CVD), 
cytokine storm, diabetes, obesity, and chronic kidney disease (CKD). COVID-19 
also induces impaired pulmonary haemodynamics, increased ang II, testicular 
damage and low serum testosterone, and reduced arginine-dependent NO 
bioavailability that promotes reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and 
endothelial dysfunction, resulting in ED. In addition, COVID-19 triggers 
psychological/mental stress and suppresses testosterone-dependent dopamine 
concentration, which contributes to incident ED.Conclusions: In conclusion, 
COVID-19 exerts a detrimental effect on male reproductive function, including 
erectile function. This involves a cascade of events from multiple pathways. As 
the pandemic dwindles, identifying the long-term effects of COVID-19-induced ED, 
and proffering adequate and effective measures in militating against 
COVID-19-induced ED remains pertinent.

DOI: 10.1080/13685538.2022.2104833
PMID: 35924485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


JCI Insight. 2022 May 23;7(10):e157035. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.157035.

Genome-wide studies reveal factors associated with circulating uromodulin and 
its relationships to complex diseases.

Li Y(1), Cheng Y(1)(2), Consolato F(3), Schiano G(4), Chong MR(5)(6)(7), 
Pietzner M(8)(9), Nguyen NQH(10), Scherer N(1)(11), Biggs ML(12)(13), Kleber 
ME(14)(15), Haug S(1), Göçmen B(1), Pigeyre M(5)(16), Sekula P(1), Steinbrenner 
I(1), Schlosser P(1)(17), Joseph CB(18), Brody JA(12), Grams ME(17)(19), Hayward 
C(18), Schultheiss UT(1)(20), Krämer BK(15), Kronenberg F(21), Peters A(22)(23), 
Seissler J(24), Steubl D(25)(26)(27), Then C(24), Wuttke M(1)(20), März 
W(15)(28)(29), Eckardt KU(30)(31), Gieger C(22)(32)(33), Boerwinkle E(34)(35), 
Psaty BM(12)(36)(37), Coresh J(17), Oefner PJ(38), Pare G(5)(7), Langenberg 
C(8)(9), Scherberich JE(39), Yu B(10), Akilesh S(40), Devuyst O(4), Rampoldi 
L(3), Köttgen A(1)(17)(41).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine and Medical Center, 
and.
(2)Faculty of Biology, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Molecular Genetics of Renal Disorders group, Division of Genetics and Cell 
Biology, IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele, Milan, Italy.
(4)Institute of Physiology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Population Health Research Institute and Thrombosis and Atherosclerosis 
Research Institute, David Braley Cardiac, Vascular and Stroke Research 
Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences and.
(7)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Health Science, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Medical Research Council (MRC) Epidemiology Unit, Institute of Metabolic 
Science, University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.
(9)Computational Medicine, Berlin Institute of Health at Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(10)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics and Environmental Sciences, 
School of Public Health, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(11)Spemann Graduate School of Biology and Medicine, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.
(12)Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, Department of Medicine, and.
(13)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.
(14)SYNLAB MVZ Humangenetik Mannheim GmbH, Mannheim, Germany.
(15)Vth Department of Medicine, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 
Mannheim, Germany.
(16)Department of Medicine, Michael G. DeGroote School of Medicine, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(18)MRC Human Genetics Unit, Institute of Genetics and Cancer, University of 
Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(19)Division of Nephrology, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(20)Department of Medicine IV: Nephrology and Primary Care, Faculty of Medicine 
and Medical Center, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(21)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, 
Innsbruck, Austria.
(22)Institute of Epidemiology, Helmholtz Center Munich, German Research Center 
for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(23)Chair of Epidemiology, Institute for Medical Information Processing, 
Biometry, and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität 
(LMU), Munich, Germany.
(24)Medical Clinic and Policlinic IV, Hospital of the University of Munich, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(25)Division of Nephrology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(26)Department of Nephrology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical University 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(27)Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, Ingelheim, Germany.
(28)Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(29)SYNLAB Academy, SYNLAB Holding Deutschland GmbH, Augsburg and Mannheim, 
Germany.
(30)Department of Nephrology and Medical Intensive Care, Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(31)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(32)Research Unit of Molecular Epidemiology, Helmholtz Center Munich, German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(33)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Partner Munich, Neuherberg, 
Germany.
(34)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, USA.
(35)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, 
USA.
(36)Department of Epidemiology and.
(37)Department of Health Systems and Population Health, School of Public Health, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(38)Institute of Functional Genomics, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, 
Germany.
(39)Munich Clinic Harlaching, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(40)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA.
(41)Centre for Integrative Biological Signalling Studies (CIBSS), University of 
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Uromodulin (UMOD) is a major risk gene for monogenic and complex forms of kidney 
disease. The encoded kidney-specific protein uromodulin is highly abundant in 
urine and related to chronic kidney disease, hypertension, and pathogen defense. 
To gain insights into potential systemic roles, we performed genome-wide screens 
of circulating uromodulin using complementary antibody-based and aptamer-based 
assays. We detected 3 and 10 distinct significant loci, respectively. 
Integration of antibody-based results at the UMOD locus with functional genomics 
data (RNA-Seq, ATAC-Seq, Hi-C) of primary human kidney tissue highlighted an 
upstream variant with differential accessibility and transcription in 
uromodulin-synthesizing kidney cells as underlying the observed cis effect. 
Shared association patterns with complex traits, including chronic kidney 
disease and blood pressure, placed the PRKAG2 locus in the same pathway as UMOD. 
Experimental validation of the third antibody-based locus, B4GALNT2, showed that 
the p.Cys466Arg variant of the encoded N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase had a 
loss-of-function effect leading to higher serum uromodulin levels. Aptamer-based 
results pointed to enzymes writing glycan marks present on uromodulin and to 
their receptors in the circulation, suggesting that this assay permits 
investigating uromodulin's complex glycosylation rather than its quantitative 
levels. Overall, our study provides insights into circulating uromodulin and its 
emerging functions.

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.157035
PMCID: PMC9220927
PMID: 35446786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


J Hum Hypertens. 2022 Aug;36(8):695-704. doi: 10.1038/s41371-021-00641-1. Epub 
2022 Jan 4.

Mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists for cardioprotection in chronic kidney 
disease: a step into the future.

Alexandrou ME(1), Theodorakopoulou MP(1), Kanbay M(2), Sarafidis PA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Hippokration Hospital, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Koc University School of 
Medicine, Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Nephrology, Hippokration Hospital, Aristotle University of 
Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece. psarafidis11@yahoo.gr.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD) and cardiovascular disease (CVD) share major risk 
factors and mechanistic pathways for progression. Furthermore, either decreased 
glomerular filtration rate or increased albuminuria are major risk factors for 
cardiovascular events. Evidence from previous renal outcome trials in patients 
with proteinuric CKD showed that angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors 
(ACEIs) and angiotensin-II receptor blockers (ARBs) effectively slow CKD 
progression, establishing these agents as fundamental CKD pharmacologic 
treatments. However, in all these trials and subsequent meta-analyses, ACEIs and 
ARBs did not significantly reduce cardiovascular events or mortality, indicating 
a high residual risk for CVD progression in individuals with CKD. In contrast to 
the above, several outcome trials with old and novel mineralocorticoid 
receptor-antagonists (MRAs) clearly suggest that these agents, apart from 
nephroprotection, offer important cardioprotection in this population. This 
article is an overview of previous and recent evidence on the effects of MRAs on 
cardiovascular outcomes in patients with CKD attempting to highlight a pathway 
able to improve both cardiovascular and renal prognosis in this population.

© 2021. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41371-021-00641-1
PMID: 34980878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


