Cell Rep Med. 2024 May 21;5(5):101529. doi: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2024.101529. Epub 
2024 May 3.

Genetic variants for head size share genes and pathways with cancer.

Knol MJ(1), Poot RA(2), Evans TE(3), Satizabal CL(4), Mishra A(5), 
Sargurupremraj M(6), van der Auwera S(7), Duperron MG(5), Jian X(8), Hostettler 
IC(9), van Dam-Nolen DHK(10), Lamballais S(11), Pawlak MA(12), Lewis CE(13), 
Carrion-Castillo A(14), van Erp TGM(15), Reinbold CS(16), Shin J(17), Scholz 
M(18), Håberg AK(19), Kämpe A(20), Li GHY(21), Avinun R(22), Atkins JR(23), Hsu 
FC(24), Amod AR(25), Lam M(26), Tsuchida A(27), Teunissen MWA(28), Aygün N(29), 
Patel Y(30), Liang D(29), Beiser AS(31), Beyer F(32), Bis JC(33), Bos D(34), 
Bryan RN(35), Bülow R(36), Caspers S(37), Catheline G(38), Cecil CAM(39), Dalvie 
S(25), Dartigues JF(40), DeCarli C(41), Enlund-Cerullo M(42), Ford JM(43), 
Franke B(44), Freedman BI(45), Friedrich N(46), Green MJ(47), Haworth S(48), 
Helmer C(49), Hoffmann P(50), Homuth G(51), Ikram MK(52), Jack CR Jr(53), 
Jahanshad N(54), Jockwitz C(55), Kamatani Y(56), Knodt AR(22), Li S(57), Lim 
K(58), Longstreth WT(59), Macciardi F(60); Cohorts for Heart and Aging Research 
in Genomic Epidemiology (CHARGE) Consortium; Enhancing NeuroImaging Genetics 
through Meta-Analysis (ENIGMA) Consortium; Mäkitie O(61), Mazoyer B(62), Medland 
SE(63), Miyamoto S(64), Moebus S(65), Mosley TH(66), Muetzel R(39), Mühleisen 
TW(67), Nagata M(64), Nakahara S(68), Palmer ND(69), Pausova Z(17), Preda A(70), 
Quidé Y(47), Reay WR(23), Roshchupkin GV(34), Schmidt R(71), Schreiner PJ(72), 
Setoh K(56), Shapland CY(73), Sidney S(74), St Pourcain B(75), Stein JL(29), 
Tabara Y(56), Teumer A(76), Uhlmann A(25), van der Lugt A(10), Vernooij MW(34), 
Werring DJ(77), Windham BG(66), Witte AV(32), Wittfeld K(7), Yang Q(57), Yoshida 
K(64), Brunner HG(78), Le Grand Q(79), Sim K(80), Stein DJ(81), Bowden DW(69), 
Cairns MJ(23), Hariri AR(22), Cheung CL(82), Andersson S(83), Villringer A(84), 
Paus T(85), Cichon S(86), Calhoun VD(87), Crivello F(88), Launer LJ(89), White 
T(90), Koudstaal PJ(91), Houlden H(77), Fornage M(92), Matsuda F(56), Grabe 
HJ(93), Ikram MA(1), Debette S(94), Thompson PM(54), Seshadri S(4), Adams 
HHH(95).

Collaborators: Amouyel P, Arfanakis K, Aribisala BS, Bastin ME, Chauhan G, Chen 
C, Cheng CY, de Jager PL, Deary IJ, Fleischman DA, Gottesman RF, Gudnason V, 
Hilal S, Hofer E, Janowitz D, Jukema JW, Liewald DCM, Lopez LM, Lopez O, Luciano 
M, Martinez O, Niessen WJ, Nyquist P, Rotter JI, Rundek T, Sacco RL, Schmidt H, 
Tiemeier H, Trompet S, van der Grond J, Völzke H, Wardlaw JM, Yanek L, Yang J, 
Agartz I, Alhusaini S, Almasy L, Ames D, Amunts K, Andreassen OA, Armstrong N, 
Bernard M, Blangero J, Blanken LME, Boks MP, Boomsma DI, Brickman AM, Brodaty H, 
Buckner RL, Buitelaar JK, Cannon DM, Carr VJ, Catts SV, Chakravarty MM, Chen Q, 
Ching CRK, Corvin A, Crespo-Facorro B, Curran JE, Davies GE, de Geus EJC, de 
Zubicaray GI, den Braber A, Desrivières S, Dillman A, Djurovic S, Drevets WC, 
Duggirala R, Ehrlich S, Erk S, Espeseth T, Fedko IO, Fernández G, Fisher SE, 
Foroud TM, Ge T, Giddaluru S, Glahn DC, Goldman AL, Green RC, Greven CU, Grimm 
O, Hansell NK, Hartman CA, Hashimoto R, Heinz A, Henskens F, Hibar DP, Ho BC, 
Hoekstra PJ, Holmes AJ, Hoogman M, Hottenga JJ, Hulshoff Pol HE, Jablensky A, 
Jenkinson M, Jia T, Jöckel KH, Jönsson EG, Kim S, Klein M, Kochunov P, Kwok JB, 
Lawrie SM, Le Hellard S, Lemaître H, Loughland C, Marquand AF, Martin NG, 
Martinot JL, Matarin M, Mathalon DH, Mather KA, Mattay VS, McDonald C, McMahon 
FJ, McMahon KL, E R, McWhirter, Mecocci P, Melle I, Meyer-Lindenberg A, Michie 
PT, Milaneschi Y, Morris DW, Mowry B, Nho K, Nichols TE, Nöthen MN, Olvera RL, 
Oosterlaan J, Ophoff RA, Pandolfo M, Pantelis C, Pappa I, Penninx B, Pike GB, 
Rasser PE, Rentería ME, Reppermund S, Rietschel M, Risacher SL, 
Romanczuk-Seiferth N, Rose EJ, Sachdev PS, Sämann PG, Saykin AJ, Schall U, 
Schofield PR, Schramm S, Schumann G, Scott R, Shen L, Sisodiya SM, Soininen H, 
Sprooten E, Srikanth V, Steen VM, Strike LT, Thalamuthu A, Toga AW, Tooney P, 
Tordesillas-Gutiérrez D, Turner JA, Valdés Hernández MDC, van der Meer D, Van 
der Wee NJA, Van Haren NEM, van 't Ent D, Veltman DJ, Walter H, Weinberger DR, 
Weiner MW, Wen W, Westlye LT, Westman E, Winkler AM, Woldehawariat G, Wright MJ, 
Wu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Cell Biology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, 
Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(4)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, UT Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA; The Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, 
USA; Department of Neurology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA.
(5)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team VINTAGE, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France.
(6)Glenn Biggs Institute for Alzheimer's & Neurodegenerative Diseases, UT Health 
San Antonio, San Antonio, TX, USA.
(7)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany; German Centre of Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Site 
Rostock/Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(8)Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine, McGovern Medical School, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(9)Stroke Research Centre, University College London, Institute of Neurology, 
London, UK; Department of Neurosurgery, Klinikum rechts der Isar, University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany; Neurosurgical Department, Cantonal Hospital St. Gallen, 
St. Gallen, Switzerland.
(10)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(11)Department of Clinical Genetics, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(12)Department of Neurology, Poznań University of Medical Sciences, Poznań, 
Poland; Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(13)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham School of Medicine, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(14)Language and Genetics Department, Max Planck Institute for 
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(15)Clinical Translational Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA; Center for 
the Neurobiology of Learning and Memory, University of California, Irvine, 
Irvine, CA, USA.
(16)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Medical Genetics and Pathology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland; Institute of Computational Life Sciences, Zurich University of 
Applied Sciences, Wädenswil, Switzerland.
(17)The Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; 
Departments of Physiology and Nutritional Sciences, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada.
(18)Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and Epidemiology, University 
of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany; LIFE Research Center for Civilization Disease, 
Leipzig, Germany.
(19)Department of Neuromedicine and Movement Science, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology (NTNU), Trondheim, Norway; Department of Radiology and 
Nuclear Medicine, St. Olavs University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(20)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Clinical Genetics, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden.
(21)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, 
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(22)Laboratory of NeuroGenetics, Department of Psychology & Neuroscience, Duke 
University, Durham, NC, USA.
(23)School of Biomedical Sciences and Pharmacy, The University of Newcastle, 
Callaghan, NSW, Australia; Centre for Brain and Mental Health Research, Hunter 
Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, NSW, Australia.
(24)Department of Biostatistics and Data Science, Wake Forest University School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(25)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(26)North Region, Institute of Mental Health, Singapore, Singapore; Population 
and Global Health, LKC Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(27)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team VINTAGE, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France; Groupe d'imagerie neurofonctionnelle, 
Institut des Maladies Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA, Université de 
Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(28)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Department of Neurology, Maastricht University Medical Center+, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(29)Department of Genetics UNC Neuroscience Center, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC, USA.
(30)Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(31)The Framingham Heart Study, Framingham, MA, USA; Department of Neurology, 
Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA; Department of 
Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA.
(32)Department of Neurology, Max Planck Institute for Cognitive and Brain 
Sciences, Leipzig, Germany; Collaborative Research Center 1052 Obesity 
Mechanisms, Faculty of Medicine, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany; Day 
Clinic for Cognitive Neurology, University Hospital Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(33)Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, Department of Medicine, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(34)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands; Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(35)Department of Radiology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(36)Institute of Diagnostic Radiology and Neuroradiology, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(37)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, 
Jülich, Germany; Institute for Anatomy I, Medical Faculty & University Hospital 
Düsseldorf, Heinrich Heine University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(38)University of Bordeaux, CNRS, INCIA, UMR 5287, team NeuroImagerie et 
Cognition Humaine, Bordeaux, France; EPHE-PSL University, Bordeaux, France.
(39)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands; Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Erasmus MC 
University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(40)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team SEPIA, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France.
(41)Department of Neurology and Center for Neuroscience, University of 
California at Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA.
(42)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland; Folkhälsan Research Center, Helsinki, Finland.
(43)San Francisco Veterans Administration Medical Center, San Francisco, CA, 
USA; University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(44)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Department of Psychiatry, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands; Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and 
Behaviour, Radboud University, Nijmegen, the Netherlands.
(45)Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Nephrology, Wake Forest School 
of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(46)Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(47)School of Clinical Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia; Neuroscience Research Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(48)Bristol Dental School, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(49)University of Bordeaux, Inserm, Bordeaux Population Health Research Center, 
team LEHA, UMR 1219, Bordeaux, France.
(50)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Medical Genetics and Pathology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland; Institute of Human Genetics, University of Bonn Medical School, 
Bonn, Germany.
(51)Interfaculty Institute for Genetics and Functional Genomics, University 
Medicine Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(52)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands; Department of Neurology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(53)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.
(54)Imaging Genetics Center, Mark & Mary Stevens Neuroimaging & Informatics 
Institute, Keck USC School of Medicine, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(55)Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, 
Jülich, Germany; Department of Psychiatry, Psychotherapy and Psychosomatics, 
RWTH Aachen University, Medical Faculty, Aachen, Germany.
(56)Center for Genomic Medicine, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(57)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA.
(58)Research Division, Institute of Mental Health, Singapore, Singapore.
(59)Department of Neurology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA; 
Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(60)Laboratory of Molecular Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry and Human 
Behavior, School of Medicine, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(61)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Clinical Genetics, Karolinska University 
Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden; Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and 
Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, Finland; Folkhälsan Research Center, 
Helsinki, Finland.
(62)Groupe d'imagerie neurofonctionnelle, Institut des Maladies 
Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, 
France; Centre Hospitalo-Universitaire de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France.
(63)Psychiatric Genetics, QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute, Brisbane, 
QLD, Australia; School of Psychology, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia; Faculty of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.
(64)Department of Neurosurgery, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto, Japan.
(65)Institute for Urban Public Health, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(66)Department of Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, University of Mississippi 
Medical Center, Jackson, MS, USA; Memory Impairment and Neurodegenerative 
Dementia (MIND) Center, Jackson, MS, USA.
(67)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre Jülich, Jülich, 
Germany; C. and O. Vogt Institute for Brain Research, Medical Faculty, Heinrich 
Heine University Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(68)Clinical Translational Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Psychiatry and 
Human Behavior, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA; Unit 2, 
Candidate Discovery Science Labs, Drug Discovery Research, Astellas Pharma Inc, 
21 Miyukigaoka, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8585, Japan.
(69)Department of Biochemistry, Wake Forest School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, 
NC, USA.
(70)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, Irvine, Irvine, CA, USA.
(71)Clinical Division of Neurogeriatrics, Department of Neurology, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(72)University of Minnesota School of Public Health, Minneapolis, MN, USA.
(73)Language and Genetics Department, Max Planck Institute for 
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK; Population Health Sciences, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(74)Kaiser Permanente Division of Research, Oakland, CA, USA.
(75)Language and Genetics Department, Max Planck Institute for 
Psycholinguistics, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; Donders Institute for Brain, 
Cognition, and Behaviour, Radboud University, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; MRC 
Integrative Epidemiology Unit, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(76)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany; Institute for Community Medicine, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(77)Stroke Research Centre, University College London, Institute of Neurology, 
London, UK.
(78)Department of Human Genetics, Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition, and 
Behaviour, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, the Netherlands; 
Department of Clinical Genetics MUMC+, GROW School of Oncology and Developmental 
Biology, and MHeNs School of Mental Health and Neuroscience, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(79)Bordeaux Population Health, University of Bordeaux, INSERM U1219, Bordeaux, 
France.
(80)West Region, Institute of Mental Health, Singapore, Singapore; Yong Loo Lin 
School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore; Lee 
Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(81)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, TU Dresden, Dresden, Germany; 
SAMRC Unit on Risk and Resilience, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South 
Africa.
(82)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmacy, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, 
The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; Centre for Genomic Sciences, Li 
Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China; 
Department of Medicine, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(83)Children's Hospital, University of Helsinki and Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland.
(84)Department of Neurology, Max Planck Institute for Cognitive and Brain 
Sciences, Leipzig, Germany; Day Clinic for Cognitive Neurology, University 
Hospital Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.
(85)Departments of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine and Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire Sainte-Justine, University of Montreal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada; Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University, 
Montreal, QC, Canada.
(86)Department of Biomedicine, University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; 
Institute of Medical Genetics and Pathology, University Hospital Basel, Basel, 
Switzerland; Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM-1), Research Centre 
Jülich, Jülich, Germany.
(87)Tri-institutional Center for Translational Research in Neuroimaging and Data 
Science (TReNDS) {Georgia State, Georgia Tech, Emory}, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(88)Groupe d'imagerie neurofonctionnelle, Institut des Maladies 
Neurodégénératives, UMR 5293, CNRS, CEA, Université de Bordeaux, Bordeaux, 
France.
(89)Laboratory of Epidemiology, Demography, and Biometry, Intramural Research 
Program, National Institute of Aging, The National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, MD, USA.
(90)Department of Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Department of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
(91)Department of Neurology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.
(92)Brown Foundation Institute of Molecular Medicine, McGovern Medical School, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA; Human 
Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas Health Science 
Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA.
(93)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Greifswald, Germany.
(94)Bordeaux Population Health, University of Bordeaux, INSERM U1219, Bordeaux, 
France; Department of Neurology, Bordeaux University Hospital, Bordeaux, France.
(95)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
the Netherlands; Latin American Brain Health (BrainLat), Universidad Adolfo 
Ibáñez, Santiago, Chile. Electronic address: hieab.adams@radboudumc.nl.

The size of the human head is highly heritable, but genetic drivers of its 
variation within the general population remain unmapped. We perform a 
genome-wide association study on head size (N = 80,890) and identify 67 genetic 
loci, of which 50 are novel. Neuroimaging studies show that 17 variants affect 
specific brain areas, but most have widespread effects. Gene set enrichment is 
observed for various cancers and the p53, Wnt, and ErbB signaling pathways. 
Genes harboring lead variants are enriched for macrocephaly syndrome genes 
(37-fold) and high-fidelity cancer genes (9-fold), which is not seen for human 
height variants. Head size variants are also near genes preferentially expressed 
in intermediate progenitor cells, neural cells linked to evolutionary brain 
expansion. Our results indicate that genes regulating early brain and cranial 
growth incline to neoplasia later in life, irrespective of height. This warrants 
investigation of clinical implications of the link between head size and cancer.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.xcrm.2024.101529
PMCID: PMC11148644
PMID: 38703765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests H.H. and I.C.H. 
received funding from Alzheimer’s Research UK and the Dunhill Medical Trust 
Foundation. M.A.P. reported receiving grants and personal and travel fees from 
Roche, Novartis, Merck, and Biogen outside the submitted work. M. Scholz 
receives funding from Pfizer Inc. for a project not related to this research. 
C.D. serves as a consultant of Novartis Pharmaceuticals. B.F. has received 
educational speaking fees from Medice. N.J. and P.M.T. are MPIs of a research 
grant from Biogen Inc. for work unrelated to the contents of this manuscript. 
D.J.W. received funding from the Stroke Foundation/British Heart Foundation. 
D.J.S. has received consultancy honoraria from Discovery Vitality, Johnson & 
Johnson, Kanna, L’Oreal, Lundbeck, Orion, Sanofi, Servier, Takeda, and Vistagen. 
H.H. received funding from MRC, Wellcome Trust, and NIHR UCLH BRC. H.J.G. has 
received travel grants and speaker’s honoraria from Fresenius Medical Care, 
Neuraxpharm, and Janssen Cilag as well as research funding from Fresenius 
Medical Care.


Am J Physiol Cell Physiol. 2024 Apr 1;326(4):C1272-C1290. doi: 
10.1152/ajpcell.00446.2023. Epub 2024 Mar 4.

Nascent shifts in renal cellular metabolism, structure, and function due to 
chronic empagliflozin in prediabetic mice.

Shepard BD(1), Chau J(2), Kurtz R(1), Rosenberg AZ(3), Sarder P(4), Border 
SP(4), Ginley B(3)(5), Rodriguez O(6)(7), Albanese C(6)(7)(8), Knoer G(7), 
Greene A(2), De Souza AMA(2), Ranjit S(9)(10), Levi M(9), Ecelbarger CM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Science, Georgetown University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, United States.
(2)Department of Medicine,Georgetown University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, United States.
(3)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, 
United States.
(4)J Crayton Pruitt Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, Florida, United States.
(5)Department of Computational Cell Biology, Anatomy, and Pathology, State 
University of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo, New York, United States.
(6)Department of Oncology, Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown 
University, Washington, District of Columbia, United States.
(7)Center for Translational Imaging, Georgetown University, Washington, District 
of Columbia, United States.
(8)Department of Radiology, Georgetown University, Washington, District of 
Columbia, United States.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular & Cellular Biology, Georgetown 
University, Washington, District of Columbia, United States.
(10)Microscopy & Imaging Shared Resources, Georgetown University, Washington, 
District of Columbia, United States.

Sodium-glucose cotransporter, type 2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) are emerging as the 
gold standard for treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2D) with renal protective 
benefits independent of glucose lowering. We took a high-level approach to 
evaluate the effects of the SGLT2i, empagliflozin (EMPA) on renal metabolism and 
function in a prediabetic model of metabolic syndrome. Male and female 12-wk-old 
TallyHo (TH) mice, and their closest genetic lean strain (Swiss-Webster, SW) 
were treated with a high-milk-fat diet (HMFD) plus/minus EMPA (@0.01%) for 
12-wk. Kidney weights and glomerular filtration rate were slightly increased by 
EMPA in the TH mice. Glomerular feature analysis by unsupervised clustering 
revealed sexually dimorphic clustering, and one unique cluster relating to EMPA. 
Periodic acid Schiff (PAS) positive areas, reflecting basement membranes and 
mesangium were slightly reduced by EMPA. Phasor-fluorescent life-time imaging 
(FLIM) of free-to-protein bound NADH in cortex showed a marginally greater 
reliance on oxidative phosphorylation with EMPA. Overall, net urine sodium, 
glucose, and albumin were slightly increased by EMPA. In TH, EMPA reduced the 
sodium phosphate cotransporter, type 2 (NaPi-2), but increased sodium hydrogen 
exchanger, type 3 (NHE3). These changes were absent or blunted in SW. EMPA led 
to changes in urine exosomal microRNA profile including, in females, enhanced 
levels of miRs 27a-3p, 190a-5p, and 196b-5p. Network analysis revealed "cancer 
pathways" and "FOXO signaling" as the major regulated pathways. Overall, EMPA 
treatment to prediabetic mice with limited renal disease resulted in 
modifications in renal metabolism, structure, and transport, which may preclude 
and underlie protection against kidney disease with developing T2D.NEW & 
NOTEWORTHY Renal protection afforded by sodium glucose transporter, type 2 
inhibitors (SGLT2i), e.g., empagliflozin (EMPA) involves complex intertwined 
mechanisms. Using a novel mouse model of obesity with insulin resistance, the 
TallyHo/Jng (TH) mouse on a high-milk-fat diet (HMFD), we found subtle changes 
in metabolism including altered regulation of sodium transporters that line the 
renal tubule. New potential epigenetic determinants of metabolic changes 
relating to FOXO and cancer signaling pathways were elucidated from an altered 
urine exosomal microRNA signature.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpcell.00446.2023
PMCID: PMC11193535
PMID: 38602847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of interest, financial or 
otherwise, are declared by the authors.


J Coll Physicians Surg Pak. 2024 Feb;34(2):193-201. doi: 
10.29271/jcpsp.2024.02.193.

Treg-Related Genes Representing a Potential Shared Biological Mechanism Between 
Clear Cell Renal Carcinoma and Obesity.

Zhou X(1), Li P(1), Xu Q(1), Ye J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Postgraduate Training Base Alliance of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Lishui City People's Hospital, Lishui, China.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the potential shared biological mechanism between 
obesity and clear cell renal carcinoma (ccRCC).
STUDY DESIGN: Observational study. Place and Duration of the Study: Department 
of Urology, Lishui People's Hospital, Lishui City, China, from December 2022 to 
March 2023.
METHODOLOGY: The test and validation cohorts were selected from the GEO 
database. WGCNA and PPI networks were applied to identify shared hub genes. 
GO/KEGG, GSEA, and ROC curve analyses were applied to explore the potential 
underlying mechanisms and diagnostic power. Logistic regression was used to 
select genes to construct the signature. The risk score and various 
immune-related analyses were performed to assess the clinical and immune 
performance of the signature. The CellMiner platform was used to screen 
potential FDA-approved drugs.
RESULTS: PTPRC, TYROBP, ITGB2, CD86, and ITGAM were defined as shared hub genes 
with good diagnostic power for obesity and ccRCC. Eight immune cells exhibited a 
positive correlation with the hub genes, while two immune cells showed negative 
associations. MDSCs and Tregs had the strongest positive associations with the 
hub genes. The Treg-related pathway exhibited predominant enrichment. The 
TYROBP, ITGB2, and CD86 genes were selected to construct an immune signature 
that has good clinical and immune performance. Six FDA-approved drugs were 
screened.
CONCLUSION: Five Treg-related genes were identified as shared hub genes in obese 
patients and ccRCC patients. A signature was constructed to describe the immune 
features of ccRCC.
KEY WORDS: Treg-related genes, Shared biological mechanism, Immune signature, 
Obesity, Clear cell renal carcinoma (ccRCC).

DOI: 10.29271/jcpsp.2024.02.193
PMID: 38342871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Pathol Res Pract. 2024 Jan;253:155012. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.155012. Epub 2023 
Dec 7.

Unraveling dedifferentiation and metastasis traces in pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma ductal cells: Insights from single-cell RNA sequencing analysis 
of ITGB4 and C19orf33.

Asadzadeh Z(1), Hemmat N(1), Hassanian H(2), Alizadeh N(1), Mokhtarzadeh A(1), 
Jafarlou M(1), Baradaran B(3).

Author information:
(1)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(2)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(3)Immunology Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran; Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran. Electronic address: baradaranb@tbzmed.ac.ir.

Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma (PDAC) ranks among the most prevalent 
gastrointestinal malignancies, with risk factors including smoking, alcohol 
abuse, diabetes mellitus, obesity, age, family history, and genetic 
predisposition. Extensive research has focused on unraveling biomarkers and 
molecular intricacies associated with PDAC. Leveraging data from the Gene 
Expression Omnibus microarray and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets, our study 
identified ITGB4 and C19orf33 as potentially differentially expressed genes in 
PDAC samples when contrasted with non-malignant tissues. Notably, these genes 
exhibited a strong correlative expression pattern, primarily within ductal 
cells. Gene Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis corroborated our findings, 
further confirming the correlation between ITGB4 and C19orf33. Additionally, we 
conducted experiments involving two pivotal PDAC-related cell lines, MIA PaCa-2 
and PANC-1, treated with oxaliplatin and 5-Fluorouracil. We also assessed the 
expression of these candidate genes in PDAC samples in comparison to adjacent 
normal tissues. Our findings revealed that C19orf33 is upregulated in PDAC 
samples, and treatment of PDAC cells with chemotherapeutic agents led to a 
correlated decrease in the expression of both ITGB4 and C19orf33. These 
co-expressed and correlated genes are implicated in relevant signaling pathways, 
suggesting shared biological activities that may contribute to the promotion of 
metastasis within malignant ductal cells. This study identifies ITGB4 and 
C19orf33 as key genes potentially shedding light on the molecular mechanisms 
driving tumorigenesis and metastasis in PDAC. These genes hold promise as 
potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets, offering valuable insights into 
the management of this challenging disease.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2023.155012
PMID: 38071887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2023 Aug 30;14:1189570. doi: 
10.3389/fendo.2023.1189570. eCollection 2023.

A possible genetic association between obesity and colon cancer in females.

Zhang XL(1), Zhang XF(1), Fang Y(2), Li ML(3), Shu R(1), Gong Y(4), Luo HY(1), 
Tian Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastrointestinal and Hernia Surgery, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Kunming Medical University, Kunming, China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Transplantation, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Kunming Medical University, Kunming, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Affiliated Hospital of Yunnan University, 
Kunming, China.
(4)Basic Medical Sciences, Kunming Medical University, Kunming, China.

OBJECT: There is mounting clinical evidence that an increase in obesity is 
linked to an increase in cancer incidence and mortality. Although studies have 
shown a link between obesity and colon cancer, the particular mechanism of the 
interaction between obesity and colon cancer in females remains unknown. The 
goal of this work is to use bioinformatics to elucidate the genetic link between 
obesity and colon cancer in females and to investigate probable molecular 
mechanisms.
METHODS: GSE44076 and GSE199063 microarray datasets were obtained from the Gene 
Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. In the two microarray datasets and healthy 
controls, the online tool GEO2R was utilized to investigate the differential 
genes between obesity and colon cancer. The differential genes (DEGs) identified 
in the two investigations were combined. Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment studies were 
performed on the DEGs. The STRING database and Cytoscape software were then used 
to build protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks to discover hub genes. 
NetworkAnalyst was also used to build networks of target microRNAs (miRNAs) and 
hub genes, as well as networks of transcriptions.
RESULTS: Between the two datasets, 146 DEGs were shared. The DEGs are primarily 
enriched in inflammatory and immune-related pathways, according to GO analysis 
and KEGG. 14 hub genes were identified via PPI building using the Cytoscape 
software's MCODE and CytoNCA plug-ins: TYROBP, CD44, BGN, FCGR3A, CD53, CXCR4, 
FN1, SPP1, IGF1, CCND1, MMP9, IL2RG, IL6 and CTGF. Key transcription factors for 
these hub genes include WRNIP1, ATF1, CBFB, and NR2F6. Key miRNAs for these hub 
genes include hsa-mir-1-3p, hsa-mir-26b-5p, hsa-mir-164a-5p and hsa-mir-9-5p.
CONCLUSION: Our research provides evidence that changed genes are shared by 
female patients with colon cancer and obesity. Through pathways connected to 
inflammation and the immune system, these genes play significant roles in the 
emergence of both diseases. We created a network between hub genes and miRNAs 
that target transcription factors, which may offer suggestions for future 
research in this area.

Copyright © 2023 Zhang, Zhang, Fang, Li, Shu, Gong, Luo and Tian.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2023.1189570
PMCID: PMC10497871
PMID: 37711894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jul 4;24(13):11091. doi: 10.3390/ijms241311091.

Clinical and Biological Predictors of Cancer Incidence and Mortality in Patients 
with Stable Coronary Artery Disease.

Campolo J(1), Borghini A(2), Parolini M(1), Mercuri A(2), Turchi S(2), Andreassi 
MG(2).

Author information:
(1)CNR Institute of Clinical Physiology, ASST Grande Ospedale Metropolitano 
Niguarda, 20162 Milan, Italy.
(2)CNR Institute of Clinical Physiology, 56124 Pisa, Italy.

Clinical and epidemiological evidence has recently revealed a link between 
coronary artery disease (CAD) and cancer. Shared risk factors and common 
biological pathways are probably involved in both pathological conditions. The 
aim of this paper was to evaluate whether and which conventional risk factors 
and novel circulating biomarkers could predict cancer incidence and death in 
patients with CAD. The study included 750 CAD patients, who underwent blood 
sampling for the evaluation of systemic inflammatory indexes (NLR and SII) and 
specific biomarkers of oxidative damage (leukocyte telomere length (LTL), 
mitochondrial DNA copy number (mtDNAcn)). Study participants were followed up 
for a mean of 5.4 ± 1.2 years. Sixty-seven patients (8.9%) developed cancer 
during the follow-up time, and nineteen (2.5%) died of cancer. Cox multivariable 
analysis revealed that age (HR = 1.071; 95% CI: 1.034-1.109; p < 0.001), smoking 
habit (HR = 1.994; 95% CI: 1.140-3.488; p = 0.016), obesity (HR = 1.708; 95% CI: 
1.022-2.854; p = 0.041) and SII (HR = 1.002; 95% CI: 1.001-1.003; p = 0.045) 
were associated with cancer incidence, while only age (HR = 1.132; 95% CI: 
1.052-1.219; p = 0.001) was a predictor of cancer death. Patients with lung and 
gastrointestinal cancers had significantly higher median mtDNAcn levels than 
those without cancer. Our study suggests that aggressive risk factor 
modification and suppression of chronic inflammation may be essential to 
preventing cancer in CAD patients.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms241311091
PMCID: PMC10342270
PMID: 37446269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


Clin Breast Cancer. 2023 Aug;23(6):e345-e353. doi: 10.1016/j.clbc.2023.05.011. 
Epub 2023 May 23.

Association Between Obesity and Circulating Tumor Cells in Early Breast Cancer 
Patients.

Tzschaschel M(1), Friedl TWP(2), Schochter F(2), Schütze S(2), Polasik A(2), 
Fehm T(3), Pantel K(4), Schindlbeck C(5), Schneeweiss A(6), Schreier J(7), Tesch 
H(8), Lorenz R(9), Aivazova-Fuchs V(10), Häberle L(11), Fasching P(11), Janni 
W(2), Rack BK(12), Fink V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, 
Germany. Electronic address: ma.tzschaschel@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Heinrich-Heine-University 
Duesseldorf, Duesseldorf, Germany.
(4)Department of Tumor Biology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Clinical Center Traunstein, Germany.
(6)National Center for Tumor Diseases, Heidelberg, Germany.
(7)DRK - Kliniken Köpenick, Berlin, Germany.
(8)Onkologische Gemeinschaftspraxis, Frankfurt, Germany.
(9)Gemeinschaftspraxis Dr. Lorenz, Hecker und Wesche, Braunschweig, Germany.
(10)Klinik Bad Trissl GmbH, Oberaudorf, Germany.
(11)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg, ComprehensiveCancer Center 
Erlangen-Nuremberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(12)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, 
Germany; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, 
Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Obesity and the presence of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) before 
and/or after chemotherapy are associated with poor outcome in breast cancer (BC) 
patients. The activation of oncogenic pathways in fatty tissue leads to cell 
proliferation, suggesting a possible link between obesity and CTCs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In the phase III SUCCESS A trial, 3754 patients with 
early BC were randomized to 3 cycles of fluorouracil, epirubicin and 
cyclophosphamide followed by 3 cycles of docetaxel with or without gemcitabine. 
Data of 1088 patients with CTC assessments (CellSearch-System; Menarini Silicon 
Biosystems, Italy) and body mass index (BMI) measurements both before and after 
chemotherapy were available. Patients were classified according to the WHO's 
international definitions as underweight, normal weight, overweight, or obese, 
and according to their weight-change during chemotherapy into a weight-loss 
group (> 5% decrease), stable-weight group (≤ 5% weight-change) or weight-gain 
group (>5% increase). Associations between CTC positivity and, BMI or 
weight-change group were analyzed using frequency-table methods.
RESULTS: At study entry, 47.4% patients were underweight or normal weight, 33.6% 
were overweight and 18.9% were obese. Before and after chemotherapy, CTCs were 
detected in 20.1% and 22.6% of patients, respectively. There was no association 
between CTC positivity and BMI before (P = 0.104) or after (P = 0.051) 
chemotherapy. Furthermore, there was no association between weight-change group 
and CTC status before/after chemotherapy (P = 0.332).
CONCLUSIONS: According to our analysis, the risk factors obesity and prevalence 
of CTCs are not associated and may represent independent prognostic factors.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2023.05.011
PMID: 37336651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure TWP: Personal fees from Lilly and 
Novartis. FS: Grants from AstraZeneca, Roche and Karyopharm. Personal fees from 
Roche, Pfizer, Novartis, AstraZeneca, GSK, MSD, Clovis and Eisai. TF: Personal 
fees from Medconcept, Onkowissen. KP: Grants from: EU/IMI CANCER-ID EFPIA, 
Personal fees from: BMS, Agena, Menarini, Novartis, Sanofi, Illumina, Abcam, 
MSD, Boehringer Ingelheim, Eppendorf and Hummingbird. AS: Grants from Celgene, 
Roche and AbbVie. Personal fees from Celgene, Roche, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, 
Novartis, MSD, Tesaro, Lilly, Seagen, Gilead, GSK, Bayer, Amgen and Pierre 
Fabre. HT: Personal fees from Novartis, Roche, GSK, Seagan, Pfizer, Lilly, Astra 
Zeneca, Daiichi, Exact Science, Vifor and Seagan. Shares/stocks from CHOP GmbH, 
VISION MED GmbH, Care and Coach GmbH, Onco Medical Consult GmbH. VA-F: Honoraria 
from Novartis. PF: Grants from Pfizer, Cepheid and Biontech. Personal fees from 
Novartis Daiichi-Sankyo, Pfizer Astra Zeneca, Eisai, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Lilly, 
Pierre Fabre, SeaGen, Roche, Agendia, Sanofi Aventis, Gilead, Mylan and 
Menarini., WJ: honoraria from Sanofi-Aventis, Novartis and Pfizer. BR: honoraria 
from AstraZeneca, Chugai, Lilly, Novartis, Sanofi-Aventis, and Jannssen-Cilag. 
All other authors have no conflicts of interest.


PLoS One. 2023 May 25;18(5):e0285536. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0285536. 
eCollection 2023.

Tetra-O-methyl-nordihydroguaiaretic acid inhibits energy metabolism and 
synergistically induces anticancer effects with temozolomide on LN229 
glioblastoma tumors implanted in mice while preventing obesity in normal mice 
that consume high-fat diets.

Kimura K(1), Chun JH(1), Lin YL(2), Liang YC(2), Jackson TLB(1), Huang 
RCC(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, United 
States of America.
(2)Agricultural Biotechnology Research Center, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan, 
Republic of China.
(3)Academician, Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China.

Tetra-O-methyl-nordihydroguaiaretic acid (terameprocol; M4N), a global 
transcription inhibitor, in combination with a second anticancer drug induces 
strong tumoricidal activity and has the ability to suppress energy metabolism in 
cultured cancer cells. In this study, we showed that after continuous oral 
consumption of high-fat (HF) diets containing M4N, the M4N concentration in most 
of the organs in mice reached ~1 μM (the M4N concentration in intestines and fat 
pads was as high as 20-40 μM) and treatment with the combination of M4N with 
temozolomide (TMZ) suppressed glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle in 
LN229 human glioblastoma implanted in xenograft mice. Combination treatment of 
M4N with TMZ also reduced the levels of lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), a key 
enzyme for glycolysis; lactate, a product of LDHA-mediated enzymatic activity; 
nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase, a rate-limiting enzyme for nicotinamide 
adenine dinucleotide plus hydrogen (NADH)/NAD+ salvage pathway; and NAD+, a 
redox electron carrier essential for energy metabolism. It was also shown that 
M4N suppressed oxygen consumption in cultured LN229 cells, indicating that M4N 
inhibited oxidative phosphorylation. Treatment with M4N and TMZ also decreased 
the level of hypoxia-inducible factor 1A, a major regulator of LDHA, under 
hypoxic conditions. The ability of M4N to suppress energy metabolism resulted in 
induction of the stress-related proteins activating transcription factor 4 and 
cation transport regulator-like protein 1, and an increase in reactive oxygen 
species production. In addition, the combination treatment of M4N with TMZ 
reduced the levels of oncometabolites such as 2-hydroxyglutarate as well as the 
aforementioned lactate. M4N also induced methylidenesuccinic acid (itaconate), a 
macrophage-specific metabolite with anti-inflammatory activity, in tumor 
microenvironments. Meanwhile, the ability of M4N to suppress energy metabolism 
prevented obesity in mice consuming HF diets, indicating that M4N has beneficial 
effects on normal tissues. The dual ability of combination treatment with M4N to 
suppress both energy metabolism and oncometabolites shows that it is potentially 
an effective therapy for cancer.

Copyright: © 2023 Kimura et al. This is an open access article distributed under 
the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the 
original author and source are credited.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0285536
PMCID: PMC10212158
PMID: 37228120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist. However, for full disclosure we acknowledge that Ru Chih C. 
Huang is a principal inventor and Jong Ho Chun, Tiffany L. B. Jackson, Yu-Ling 
Lin and Yu-Chuan Liang are inventors of a patent application "Formulations of 
Terameprocol and Temozolomide and Their Use in Stimulation of Humoral Immunity 
in Tumors" (PCT WO/2021/108601 - patent date June 3, 2021). Dr. Huang is also a 
principal inventor of several other JHU patents on M4N. This does not alter the 
authors’ adherence to policies on sharing data and materials.


Int J Mol Sci. 2022 Nov 17;23(22):14256. doi: 10.3390/ijms232214256.

Vitamin D Deficiency and COVID-19: A Biological Database Study on Pathways and 
Gene-Disease Associations.

Alcalá-Santiago Á(1)(2)(3), Rodríguez-Barranco M(2)(4)(5), Rava M(6)(7), 
Jiménez-Sousa MÁ(7)(8), Gil Á(2)(3)(9)(10), Sánchez MJ(2)(4)(5)(11), 
Molina-Montes E(1)(2)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Science, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Biosanitaria ibs.GRANADA, 18012 Granada, Spain.
(3)Institute of Nutrition and Food Technology (INYTA) 'José Mataix', Biomedical 
Research Centre, University of Granada, Avenida del Conocimiento s/n, 18071 
Granada, Spain.
(4)Andalusian School of Public Health, Cuesta del Observatorio 4, 18012 Granada, 
Spain.
(5)CIBER de Epidemiología y Salud Pública (CIBERESP), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(6)National Center of Epidemiology (CNE), Institute of Health Carlos III 
(ISCIII), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(7)CIBER de Enfermedades Infecciosas (CIBERINFEC), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(8)Unit of Viral Infection and Immunity, National Center for Microbiology (CNM), 
Institute of Health Carlos III (ISCIII), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(9)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology II, Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Granada, 18071 Granada, Spain.
(10)CIBER de Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBEROBN), 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(11)Department of Preventive Medicine and Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Granada, 18011 Granada, Spain.

Vitamin D (VD) is a fat-soluble vitamin, and pivotal for maintaining health. 
Several genetic markers have been related to a deficient VD status; these 
markers could confer an increased risk to develop osteoporosis and other chronic 
diseases. A VD deficiency could also be a determinant of a severe COVID-19 
disease. This study aimed to interrogate genetic/biological databases on the 
biological implications of a VD deficiency and its association with diseases, to 
further explore its link with COVID-19. The genetic variants of both a VD 
deficiency and COVID-19 were identified in the genome-wide association studies 
(GWAS) catalog and other sources. We conducted enrichment analyses (considering 
corrected p-values < 0.05 as statistically significant) of the pathways, and 
gene-disease associations using tools, such as FUMA, REVIGO, DAVID and DisGeNET, 
and databases, such as the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and 
Gene Ontology (GO). There were 26 and 46 genes associated with a VD deficiency 
and COVID-19, respectively. However, there were no genes shared between the two. 
Genes related to a VD deficiency were involved in the metabolism of 
carbohydrates, retinol, drugs and xenobiotics, and were associated with the 
metabolic syndrome and related factors (obesity, hypertension and diabetes 
mellitus), as well as with neoplasms. There were few enriched pathways and 
disease connections for the COVID-19-related genes, among which some of the 
aforementioned comorbidities were also present. In conclusion, genetic factors 
that influence the VD levels in the body are most prominently associated with 
nutritional and metabolic diseases. A VD deficiency in high-risk populations 
could be therefore relevant in a severe COVID-19, underlining the need to 
examine whether a VD supplementation could reduce the severity of this disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms232214256
PMCID: PMC9699081
PMID: 36430729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
funders had no role in the design of the study; in the collection, analyses, or 
interpretation of the data; in the writing of the manuscript; nor in the 
decision to publish the results.


Biosci Rep. 2022 Nov 30;42(11):BSR20221108. doi: 10.1042/BSR20221108.

System biology approaches identified novel biomarkers and their signaling 
pathways involved in renal cell carcinoma with different human diseases.

Hossen MS(1), Samad A(2)(3), Ahammad F(2)(4)(5), Sasa GBK(1), Jiang Z(6), Ding 
X(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences and Medicine, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University, 310018 
Hangzhou, People's Republic of China.
(2)Laboratory of Computational Biology, Biological Solution Centre (BioSol 
Centre), Jashore 7408, Bangladesh.
(3)Department of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, Faculty of Biological 
Science, Jashore University of Science and Technology, Jashore 7408, Bangladesh.
(4)Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, King Abdul-Aziz 
University, Jeddah 21589, Saudi Arabia.
(5)Division of Biological and Biomedical Sciences (BBS), College of Health & 
Life Sciences (CHLS), Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU), Doha 34110, Qatar.
(6)Department of Science Research and Information Management, Zhejiang 
Provincial Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Hangzhou 310051, China.

Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is a type of cancer that develops in the renal 
epithelium of the kidney. It is responsible for approximately 3% of adult 
malignancies, and 90-95% of neoplasms originate from the kidney. Advances in 
tumor diagnosis, innovative immune therapeutics, and checkpoint inhibitors-based 
treatment options improved the survival rate of patients with RCC accompanied by 
different risk factors. RCC patients with diabetes, hepatitis C virus (HCV), or 
obesity (OB) may have a comorbidity, and finding the risk factor for better 
clinical treatment is an urgent issue. Therefore, the study focused on 
network-based gene expression analysis approaches to learning the impact of RCC 
on other comorbidities associated with the disease. The study found critical 
genetic factors and signal transduction pathways that share pathophysiology and 
commonly use dysregulated genes of the illness. Initially, the study identified 
385 up-regulated genes and 338 down-regulated genes involved with RCC. OB, 
chronic kidney disease (CKD), type 2 diabetes (T2D), and HCV significantly 
shared 28, 14, 5, and 3 genes, respectively. RCC shared one down-regulated gene 
versican (VCAN) with OB and HCV and one down-regulated gene oxidase homolog 2 
(LOXL2) with OB and CKD. Interestingly, most of the shared pathways were linked 
with metabolism. The study also identified six prospective biomarkers, signaling 
pathways, and numerous critical regulatory and associated drug candidates for 
the disease. We believe that the discovery will help explain these diseases' 
complicated interplay and aid in developing novel therapeutic targets and drug 
candidates.

© 2022 The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1042/BSR20221108
PMCID: PMC9679400
PMID: 36314741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no competing 
interests associated with the manuscript.


