Front Aging Neurosci. 2024 May 30;16:1352681. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1352681. 
eCollection 2024.

Identification and validation of a novel Parkinson-Glioma feature gene signature 
in glioma and Parkinson's disease.

Zhang H(1)(2), Wang J(1)(2), Su N(1)(2), Yang N(1)(2), Wang X(1)(2), Li C(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Qilu Hospital, Cheeloo College of Medicine and 
Institute of Brain and Brain-Inspired Science, Shandong University, Jinan, 
China.
(2)Jinan Microecological Biomedicine Shandong Laboratory and Shandong Key 
Laboratory of Brain Function Remodeling, Jinan, China.

INTRODUCTION: The prognosis for glioma is generally poor, and the 5-year 
survival rate for patients with this disease has not shown significant 
improvement over the past few decades. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent 
movement disorder, ranking as the second most common neurodegenerative disease 
after Alzheimer's disease. Although Parkinson's disease and glioma are distinct 
diseases, they may share certain underlying biological pathways that contribute 
to their development.
OBJECTIVE: This study aims to investigate the involvement of genes associated 
with Parkinson's disease in the development and prognosis of glioma.
METHODS: We obtained datasets from the TCGA, CGGA, and GEO databases, which 
included RNA sequencing data and clinical information of glioma and Parkinson's 
patients. Eight machine learning algorithms were used to identify 
Parkinson-Glioma feature genes (PGFGs). PGFGs associated with glioma prognosis 
were identified through univariate Cox analysis. A risk signature was 
constructed based on PGFGs using Cox regression analysis and the Least Absolute 
Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO) method. We subsequently validated its 
predictive ability using various methods, including ROC curves, calibration 
curves, KM survival analysis, C-index, DCA, independent prognostic analysis, and 
stratified analysis. To validate the reproducibility of the results, similar 
work was performed on three external test datasets. Additionally, a 
meta-analysis was employed to observe the heterogeneity and consistency of the 
signature across different datasets. We also compared the differences in genomic 
variations, functional enrichment, immune infiltration, and drug sensitivity 
analysis based on risk scores. This exploration aimed to uncover potential 
mechanisms of glioma occurrence and prognosis.
RESULTS: We identified 30 PGFGs, of which 25 were found to be significantly 
associated with glioma survival. The prognostic signature, consisting of 19 
genes, demonstrated excellent predictive performance for 1-, 2-, and 3-year 
overall survival (OS) of glioma. The signature emerged as an independent 
prognostic factor for glioma overall survival (OS), surpassing the predictive 
performance of traditional clinical variables. Notably, we observed differences 
in the tumor microenvironment (TME), levels of immune cell infiltration, immune 
gene expression, and drug resistance analysis among distinct risk groups. These 
findings may have significant implications for the clinical treatment of glioma 
patients.
CONCLUSION: The expression of genes related to Parkinson's disease is closely 
associated with the immune status and prognosis of glioma patients, potentially 
regulating glioma pathogenesis through multiple mechanisms. The interaction 
between genes associated with Parkinson's disease and the immune system during 
glioma development provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms and 
targeted therapies for glioma.

Copyright © 2024 Zhang, Wang, Su, Yang, Wang and Li.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2024.1352681
PMCID: PMC11170708
PMID: 38872623

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


J Parkinsons Dis. 2024 May 24. doi: 10.3233/JPD-240075. Online ahead of print.

Localized Pantothenic Acid (Vitamin B5) Reductions Present Throughout the 
Dementia with Lewy Bodies Brain.

Scholefield M(1), Church SJ(1), Xu J(2), Patassini S(2), Cooper GJS(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Sciences, School of Medical Sciences, Faculty of 
Biology, Medicine and Health, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(2)School of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Auckland, 
Private Bag, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Localized pantothenic acid deficiencies have been observed in 
several neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease dementia (PDD), and Huntington's disease (HD), indicating downstream 
energetic pathway perturbations. However, no studies have yet been performed to 
see whether such deficiencies occur across the dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) 
brain, or what the pattern of such dysregulation may be.
OBJECTIVE: Firstly, this study aimed to quantify pantothenic acid levels across 
ten regions of the brain in order to determine the localization of any 
pantothenic acid dysregulation in DLB. Secondly, the localization of pantothenic 
acid alterations was compared to that previously in AD, PDD, and HD brains.
METHODS: Pantothenic acid levels were determined in 20 individuals with DLB and 
19 controls by ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry (UHPLC-MS/MS) across ten brain regions. Case-control differences 
were determined by nonparametric Mann-Whitney U test, with the calculation of 
S-values, risk ratios, E-values, and effect sizes. The results were compared 
with those previously obtained in DLB, AD, and HD.
RESULTS: Pantothenic acid levels were significantly decreased in six of the ten 
investigated brain regions: the pons, substantia nigra, motor cortex, middle 
temporal gyrus, primary visual cortex, and hippocampus. This level of 
pantothenic acid dysregulation is most similar to that of the AD brain, in which 
pantothenic acid is also decreased in the motor cortex, middle temporal gyrus, 
primary visual cortex, and hippocampus. DLB appears to differ from other 
neurodegenerative diseases in being the only of the four to not show pantothenic 
acid dysregulation in the cerebellum.
CONCLUSIONS: Pantothenic acid deficiency appears to be a shared mechanism of 
several neurodegenerative diseases, although differences in the localization of 
this dysregulation may contribute to the differing clinical pathways observed in 
these conditions.

Plain Language Summary: Decreases in a molecule called pantothenic acid (also 
known as vitamin B5) have been observed in several areas of the brain in 
multiple dementia disease, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease 
dementia, and Huntington’s disease. However, it is unknown whether such changes 
also occur in another dementia disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, which shows 
many of the same symptoms and molecular changes as these conditions. As such, 
this study was performed in order to determine if and where changes in 
pantothenic acid occur throughout the dementia with Lewy bodies brain. Using a 
methodology called liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry, which is able to 
measure pantothenic acid levels in a highly precise manner in brain tissues, we 
found that several regions of the dementia with Lewy bodies brain show decreases 
in pantothenic acid, including some involved in movement such as the substantia 
nigra and motor cortex, as well as regions associated with cognition and memory 
such as the hippocampus—looking most similar to the pattern of changes already 
seen in Alzheimer’s disease. It is possible that these changes contribute to the 
progression of dementia with Lewy bodies; however, further studies need to be 
performed to determine at what point these changes happen during the disease and 
how they may contribute to the development of symptoms.

DOI: 10.3233/JPD-240075
PMID: 38820022


Neurol Genet. 2024 Mar 28;10(2):e200144. doi: 10.1212/NXG.0000000000200144. 
eCollection 2024 Apr.

Cerebellar Micro-RNA Profile in a Mouse Model of Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 2.

Paul S(1), Dansithong W(1), Gandelman M(1), Figueroa KP(1), Scoles DR(1), Pulst 
SM(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurology, University of Utah.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) are critical for regulating the 
expression of genes in multiple neurodegenerative diseases, but miRNAs have not 
been investigated in spinocerebellar ataxia type 2 (SCA2). SCA2, a dominantly 
inherited progressive neurodegenerative polyglutamine (polyQ) disease, is caused 
by a CAG repeat expansion in the ataxin-2 (ATXN2) gene. In this study, we 
determined miRNA transcriptomes in SCA2-BAC-ATXN2[Q72] transgenic mice.
METHODS: We assessed the expression of miRNAs in SCA2 transgenic mouse cerebella 
using the HiSeq Illumina sequencer. We used the miRNA target filter tool in 
Qiagen Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) to identify target genes of 
differentially expressed miRNAs (DEmiRs) within in the SCA2 mouse transcriptomes 
and then performed pathway analyses.
RESULTS: Our analysis revealed significant changes in the expression levels of 
multiple miRNAs in mice with SCA2. We identified 81 DEmiRs in mice with SCA2, 
with 52 miRNAs upregulated and 29 miRNAs downregulated after onset of rotarod 
deficit. Subsequent IPA processing enabled us to establish connections between 
these DEmiRs and specific biological regulatory functions. Furthermore, by using 
the IPA miRNA target filter, we identified target genes of DEmiRs in the 
SCA2-BAC-ATXN2[Q72] transcriptome data set and demonstrated their significant 
impact on several biological functional and disease pathways.
DISCUSSION: Our study establishes the role of both DEmiRs and their targets in 
SCA2 pathogenesis. By expressing mutant ATXN2 under the control of its 
endogenous regulatory elements in the SCA2-BAC-ATXN2[Q72] mouse model, we 
identified a set of DEmiRs that are shared across multiple neurodegenerative 
diseases including other SCAs, Alzheimer disease (AD), Parkinson disease (PD), 
and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). There was a significant overlap of both 
DEmiRs and their targets of BAC-ATXN2[Q72] transcriptomes in dysregulated 
pathways that characterize SCA2. This observation also extended to dysregulated 
pathways in ALS, AD, and PD. DEmiRs identified in this study may represent 
therapeutic targets for neurodegeneration or lead to biomarkers for 
characterizing various neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2024 The Author(s). Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. on 
behalf of the American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/NXG.0000000000200144
PMCID: PMC11073881
PMID: 38715656

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no relevant disclosures. Go 
to Neurology.org/NG for full disclosures.


medRxiv [Preprint]. 2024 Mar 8:2024.03.07.24303921. doi: 
10.1101/2024.03.07.24303921.

Local patterns of genetic sharing challenge the boundaries between 
neuropsychiatric and insulin resistance-related conditions.

Fanelli G(1)(2)(3), Franke B(1)(2)(4), Fabbri C(3), Werme J(4), Erdogan I(2), De 
Witte W(2), Poelmans G(5), Ruisch IH(2), Reus LM(6)(7)(8), van Gils V(9), Jansen 
WJ(9), Vos SJB(9), Alam KA(10), Martinez A(10)(11), Haavik J(10)(12), Wimberley 
T(13)(14), Dalsgaard S(13)(15)(16), Fóthi Á(17), Barta C(17), Fernandez-Aranda 
F(18)(19)(20)(21), Jimenez-Murcia S(18)(19)(20)(21)(22), Berkel S(23), Matura 
S(24), Salas-Salvadó J(25)(26)(27), Arenella M(2)(28), Serretti A(29), Mota 
NR(1)(2), Bralten J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Donders Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Radboud University, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Human Genetics, Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Biomedical and Neuromotor Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy.
(4)Department of Complex Trait Genetics, Center for Neurogenomics and Cognitive 
Research, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam Neuroscience, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(5)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(6)Alzheimer Center Amsterdam, Neurology, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 
Amsterdam UMC location VUmc, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(7)Amsterdam Neuroscience, Neurodegeneration, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(8)Center for Neurobehavioral Genetics, University of California, Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, California, United States.
(9)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, School for Mental Health and 
Neuroscience, Alzheimer Center Limburg, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.
(10)Department of Biomedicine, University of Bergen, Norway.
(11)K.G. Jebsen Center for Translational Research in Parkinson's Disease, 
University of Bergen, Norway.
(12)Division of Psychiatry, Haukeland University Hospital, Norway.
(13)National Centre for Register-based Research, School of Business and Social 
Sciences, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(14)iPSYCH - The Lundbeck Foundation Initiative for Integrated Psychiatric 
Research, Aarhus, Denmark.
(15)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark.
(16)Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Glostrup, Mental Health 
Services of the Capital Region, Hellerup, Denmark.
(17)Department of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular 
Biology, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary.
(18)Clinical Psychology Department, University Hospital of Bellvitge, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(19)Psychoneurobiology of Eating and Addictive Behaviors Group, Neurosciences 
Program, Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBELL), Barcelona, Spain.
(20)CIBER Fisiopatología Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBERobn), Instituto de Salud 
Carlos III, Barcelona, Spain.
(21)Department of Clinical Sciences, School of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(22)Psychological Services, University of Barcelona, Spain.
(23)Institute of Human Genetics, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(24)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, 
University Hospital, Goethe University Frankfurt, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
(25)Universitat Rovira i Virgili, Biochemistry and biotechnology Department, 
Grup Alimentació, Nutrició, Desenvolupament i Salut Mental, Unitat de Nutrició 
Humana, Reus, Spain.
(26)CIBER de Fisiopatología de la Obesidad y Nutrición (CIBEROBN), Instituto de 
Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(27)Institut d'Investigació Sanitària Pere Virgili (IISPV), Reus, Spain.
(28)Department of Forensic and Neurodevelopmental Science, Institute of 
Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College, London, UK.
(29)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Kore University of Enna, Enna, Italy.

The co-occurrence of insulin resistance (IR)-related metabolic conditions with 
neuropsychiatric disorders is a complex public health challenge. Evidence of the 
genetic links between these phenotypes is emerging, but little is currently 
known about the genomic regions and biological functions that are involved. To 
address this, we performed Local Analysis of [co]Variant Association (LAVA) 
using large-scale (N=9,725-933,970) genome-wide association studies (GWASs) 
results for three IR-related conditions (type 2 diabetes mellitus, obesity, and 
metabolic syndrome) and nine neuropsychiatric disorders. Subsequently, 
positional and expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL)-based gene mapping and 
downstream functional genomic analyses were performed on the significant loci. 
Patterns of negative and positive local genetic correlations (|rg|=0.21-1, 
pFDR<0.05) were identified at 109 unique genomic regions across all phenotype 
pairs. Local correlations emerged even in the absence of global genetic 
correlations between IR-related conditions and Alzheimer's disease, bipolar 
disorder, and Tourette's syndrome. Genes mapped to the correlated regions showed 
enrichment in biological pathways integral to immune-inflammatory function, 
vesicle trafficking, insulin signalling, oxygen transport, and lipid metabolism. 
Colocalisation analyses further prioritised 10 genetically correlated regions 
for likely harbouring shared causal variants, displaying high deleterious or 
regulatory potential. These variants were found within or in close proximity to 
genes, such as SLC39A8 and HLA-DRB1, that can be targeted by supplements and 
already known drugs, including omega-3/6 fatty acids, immunomodulatory, 
antihypertensive, and cholesterol-lowering drugs. Overall, our findings 
underscore the complex genetic landscape of IR-neuropsychiatric multimorbidity, 
advocating for an integrated disease model and offering novel insights for 
research and treatment strategies in this domain.

DOI: 10.1101/2024.03.07.24303921
PMCID: PMC10942494
PMID: 38496672

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations of interest AS is or has been a 
consultant/speaker for Abbott, Abbvie, Angelini, AstraZeneca, Clinical Data, 
Boehringer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Innovapharma, 
Italfarmaco, Janssen, Lundbeck, Naurex, Pfizer, Polifarma, Sanofi, Servier and 
Taliaz. BF discloses having received educational speaking fees and travel 
support from Medice. CF was a speaker for Janssen. GP is director/chief 
scientific officer and WDW as well as IHR are employees of Drug Target ID, Ltd., 
but their activities at this company do not constitute competing interests with 
regard to this paper. JH has received lecture honoraria as part of continuing 
medical education programs sponsored by Shire, Takeda, Medice, and Biocodex. JSS 
reported receiving research support through his institution from the Patrimonio 
Comunal Olivarero, Almond Board of California and Pistachio Growers of 
California; he is serving on the board of and receiving grant support through 
his institution from the International Nut and Dried Foundation, Instituto 
Danone Spain and Institute Danone International. FFA and SJM have been 
consultants/speakers for NovoNordisk. All other authors report no biomedical 
financial interests or potential conflicts of interest.


Brain Pathol. 2024 Feb 28;34(4):e13250. doi: 10.1111/bpa.13250. Online ahead of 
print.

Huntingtin CAG repeats in neuropathologically confirmed tauopathies: Novel 
insights.

Pérez-Oliveira S(1)(2), Castilla-Silgado J(2)(3), Painous C(4)(5)(6), Aldecoa 
I(7)(8), Menéndez-González M(2)(9)(10), Blázquez-Estrada M(2)(9)(10), Corte 
D(11), Tomás-Zapico C(2)(3), Compta Y(4)(5)(6), Muñoz E(4)(5)(6), Lladó A(12), 
Balasa M(12), Aragonès G(7), García-González P(13)(14), Rosende-Roca M(13)(14), 
Boada M(13)(14), Ruíz A(13)(14), Pastor P(15), De la Casa-Fages B(16)(17), 
Rabano A(18), Sánchez-Valle R(12), Molina-Porcel L(5)(12), Álvarez V(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(2)Instituto de Investigación Sanitaria del Principado de Asturias (ISPA), 
Oviedo, Spain.
(3)Department of Functional Biology (Physiology), University of Oviedo, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(4)Parkinson's Disease and Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, 
Hospital Clinic of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(5)UB Neuro Institut de Neurociències, Maeztu Center, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Fundació de Recerca Clínic Barcelona-Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques 
August Pi i Sunyer (FRCB-IDIBAPS), Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Neurological Tissue Bank of the Biobank-Hospital Clinic-FRCB-IDIBAPS, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Pathology Department, Biomedical Diagnostic Center, Hospital Clínic de 
Barcelona, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain.
(10)Department of Medicine, University of Oviedo, Oviedo, Spain.
(11)Biobank of Principado de Asturias, Hospital Universitario Central de 
Asturias (HUCA), Oviedo, Spain.
(12)Alzheimer's Disease and other Cognitive Disorders Unit, Neurology Service, 
Hospital Clínic, FRCB-IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(13)Ace Alzheimer Center Barcelona - Universitat Internacional de Catalunya, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(14)Networking Research Center on Neurodegenerative Diseases (CIBERNED), 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, Spain.
(15)Unit of Neurodegenerative Diseases, Department of Neurology, University 
Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol and The Germans Trias i Pujol Research Institute 
(IGTP) Badalona, Barcelona, Spain.
(16)Movement Disorders Unit, Department of Neurology, Hospital General 
Universitario Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain.
(17)Instituto Investigación Sanitaria Gregorio Marañón, Madrid, Spain.
(18)Neuropathology Department and Brain Tissue Bank, CIEN Foundation, Queen 
Sofia Foundation Alzheimer Center, Madrid, Spain.

Previous studies have suggested a relationship between the number of CAG triplet 
repeats in the HTT gene and neurodegenerative diseases not related to 
Huntington's disease (HD). This study seeks to investigate whether the number of 
CAG repeats of HTT is associated with the risk of developing certain tauopathies 
and its influence as a modulator of the clinical and neuropathological 
phenotype. Additionally, it aims to evaluate the potential of polyglutamine 
staining as a neuropathological screening. We genotyped the HTT gene CAG repeat 
number and APOE-ℰ isoforms in a cohort of patients with neuropathological 
diagnoses of tauopathies (n=588), including 34 corticobasal degeneration (CBD), 
98 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and 456 Alzheimer's disease (AD). 
Furthermore, we genotyped a control group of 1070 patients, of whom 44 were 
neuropathologic controls. We identified significant differences in the number of 
patients with pathological HTT expansions in the CBD group (2.7%) and PSP group 
(3.2%) compared to control subjects (0.2%). A significant increase in the size 
of the HTT CAG repeats was found in the AD compared to the control group, 
influenced by the presence of the Apoliprotein E (APOE)-ℰ4 isoform. Post-mortem 
assessments uncovered tauopathy pathology with positive polyglutamine 
aggregates, with a slight predominance in the neostriatum for PSP and CBD cases 
and somewhat greater limbic involvement in the AD case. Our results indicated a 
link between HTT CAG repeat expansion with other non-HD pathology, suggesting 
they could share common neurodegenerative pathways. These findings support that 
genetic or histological screening for HTT repeat expansions should be considered 
in tauopathies.

© 2024 The Authors. Brain Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf 
of International Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/bpa.13250
PMCID: PMC11189778
PMID: 38418081

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest 
related to this work.


Eur J Med Res. 2023 Dec 6;28(1):570. doi: 10.1186/s40001-023-01360-8.

SNAP25 is a potential target for early stage Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's 
disease.

Wang Q(#)(1), Tao S(#)(2), Xing L(3), Liu J(3), Xu C(3), Xu X(3), Ding H(3), 
Shen Q(4), Yu X(5), Zheng Y(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou, 221004, Jiangsu, 
China.
(2)Laboratory Animal Center, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, 310058, Zhejiang, 
China.
(3)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Brain Disease and Bioinformation, Research Center 
for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 
221004, Jiangsu, China.
(4)Neurological Institute, Columbia University, NY Presbyterian Hospital, New 
York, NY, USA. Kikkifly@gmail.com.
(5)National Engineering Laboratory for Resource Development of Endangered Crude 
Drugs in Northwest of China, Shaanxi Normal University, Xi'an, 710062, Shanxi, 
China. yxb_zhengzhou@163.com.
(6)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Brain Disease and Bioinformation, Research Center 
for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Xuzhou Medical University, Xuzhou, 
221004, Jiangsu, China. northstar1979@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), two common 
irreversible neurodegenerative diseases, share similar early stage syndromes, 
such as olfaction dysfunction. Yet, the potential comorbidity mechanism of AD 
and PD was not fully elucidated.
METHODS: The gene expression profiles of GSE5281 and GSE8397 were downloaded 
from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. We utilized a series of 
bioinformatics analyses to screen the overlapped differentially expressed genes 
(DEGs). The hub genes were further identified by the plugin CytoHubba of 
Cytoscape and validated in the hippocampus (HIP) samples of APP/PS-1 transgenic 
mice and the substantial nigra (SN) samples of A53T transgenic mice by real-time 
quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR). Meanwhile, the expression of 
the target genes in the olfactory epithelium/bulb was detected by RT-qPCR. 
Finally, molecular docking was used to screen potential compounds for the target 
gene.
RESULTS: One hundred seventy-four overlapped DEGs were identified in AD and PD. 
Five of the top ten enrichment pathways mainly focused on the synapse. Five hub 
genes were identified and further validated. As a common factor in AD and PD, 
the changes of synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP25) mRNA in olfactory 
epithelium/bulb were significantly decreased and had a strong association with 
those in the HIP and SN samples. Pazopanib was the optimal compound targeting 
SNAP25, with a binding energy of - 9.2 kcal/mol.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results provided a theoretical basis for understanding the 
comorbidity mechanism of AD and PD and highlighted that SNAP25 in the olfactory 
epithelium may serve as a potential target for early detection and intervention 
in both AD and PD.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-023-01360-8
PMCID: PMC10699008
PMID: 38053192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


Bioinformation. 2023 Oct 31;19(10):995-998. doi: 10.6026/97320630019995. 
eCollection 2023.

Neurological potency of native plants from sub-Himalayan West Bengal through 
reverse pharmacology.

Tshering Dhendup L(1), Sutapa D(1), Lee J(2), Mohammad AA(3), Sen A(1)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Genetics Laboratory, Department of Botany, University of North 
Bengal, Raja Rammohanpur, Siliguri-734013, India.
(2)Department of Environmental and Forest Resources, Chungnam National 
University, Daehak-ro, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Botany and Microbiology, College of Sciences,King Saud 
University, Riyadh 11451, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Bioinformatics Facility Centre, University of North Bengal, Raja Rammohanpur, 
Siliguri-734013, India.
(5)Biswa Bangla Genome Centre, University of North Bengal, Raja Rammohanpur, 
Siliguri-734013, India.

Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and epilepsy, pose a growing global health challenge due to an 
aging population. These conditions share common processes, including protein 
accumulation, oxidative stress, and neuro-inflammation, making their treatment 
complex and costly. Network pharmacology, an innovative approach integrating 
systems biology and computational biology, offers insights into multi-target 
formulations and the repurposing of existing medications for neurodegenerative 
diseases. We shortlisted 730 bioactive compounds from 25 traditional Himalayan 
plants, assessed their drug-like properties using ADME criteria, and predicted 
their potential target proteins through reverse docking and pharmacophore 
mapping. Our study identified 287 compounds with high gastrointestinal 
absorption and good blood-brain barrier permeability. These compounds were 
subjected to target prediction, yielding a list of 171 potential target 
proteins. Functional annotation and pathway enrichment analysis highlighted 
their involvement in steroid hormone-related pathways, MAPK signaling, FOXO 
signaling, TNF signaling, VEGF signaling, and neurotrophin signaling. 
Importantly, one plant, Valeriana jatamansi, exhibited an association with 
beta-amyloid binding activity, a potential therapeutic approach for AD. From our 
study we could understand how these plants modulate our body to manage these 
diseases. However, further in vitro and in vivo validation is needed before 
commercial and public use of this data.

© 2023 Biomedical Informatics.

DOI: 10.6026/97320630019995
PMCID: PMC10640792
PMID: 37969663

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the authors. The authors have no relevant financial or non-financial 
interests to disclose.


Arch Toxicol. 2024 Jan;98(1):95-119. doi: 10.1007/s00204-023-03628-8. Epub 2023 
Nov 15.

Inflammation as common link to progressive neurological diseases.

Dias-Carvalho A(1)(2), Sá SI(3)(4), Carvalho F(5)(6), Fernandes E(7), Costa 
VM(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Associate Laboratory i4HB - Institute for Health and Bioeconomy, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, University of Porto, 4050-313, Porto, Portugal. arcdc97@gmail.com.
(2)UCIBIO- Applied Molecular Biosciences Unit, Laboratory of Toxicology, 
Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, 
4050-313, Porto, Portugal. arcdc97@gmail.com.
(3)Unit of Anatomy, Department of Biomedicine, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(4)CINTESIS@RISE, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(5)Associate Laboratory i4HB - Institute for Health and Bioeconomy, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, University of Porto, 4050-313, Porto, Portugal.
(6)UCIBIO- Applied Molecular Biosciences Unit, Laboratory of Toxicology, 
Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, 
4050-313, Porto, Portugal.
(7)LAQV, REQUIMTE, Laboratory of Applied Chemistry, Department of Chemical 
Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, 4050-313, Porto, Portugal.
(8)Associate Laboratory i4HB - Institute for Health and Bioeconomy, Faculty of 
Pharmacy, University of Porto, 4050-313, Porto, Portugal. veramcosta@ff.up.pt.
(9)UCIBIO- Applied Molecular Biosciences Unit, Laboratory of Toxicology, 
Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Porto, 
4050-313, Porto, Portugal. veramcosta@ff.up.pt.

Life expectancy has increased immensely over the past decades, bringing new 
challenges to the health systems as advanced age increases the predisposition 
for many diseases. One of those is the burden of neurologic disorders. While 
many hypotheses have been placed to explain aging mechanisms, it has been widely 
accepted that the increasing pro-inflammatory status with advanced age or 
"inflammaging" is a main determinant of biological aging. Furthermore, 
inflammaging is at the cornerstone of many age-related diseases and its 
involvement in neurologic disorders is an exciting hypothesis. Indeed, aging and 
neurologic disorders development in the elderly seem to share some basic 
pathways that fundamentally converge on inflammation. Peripheral inflammation 
significantly influences brain function and contributes to the development of 
neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and 
multiple sclerosis. Understanding the role of inflammation in the pathogenesis 
of progressive neurological diseases is of crucial importance for developing 
effective treatments and interventions that can slow down or prevent disease 
progression, therefore, decreasing its social and economic burden.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00204-023-03628-8
PMCID: PMC10761431
PMID: 37964100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


Channels (Austin). 2023 Dec;17(1):2253102. doi: 10.1080/19336950.2023.2253102. 
Epub 2023 Oct 8.

Overlap in synaptic neurological condition susceptibility pathways and the 
neural pannexin 1 interactome revealed by bioinformatics analyses.

Frederiksen SD(1), Wicki-Stordeur LE(1), Swayne LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Sciences, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC, Canada.

Many neurological conditions exhibit synaptic impairments, suggesting 
mechanistic convergence. Additionally, the pannexin 1 (PANX1) channel and 
signaling scaffold is linked to several of these neurological conditions and is 
an emerging regulator of synaptic development and plasticity; however, its 
synaptic pathogenic contributions are relatively unexplored. To this end, we 
explored connections between synaptic neurodevelopmental disorder and 
neurodegenerative disease susceptibility genes discovered by genome-wide 
association studies (GWASs), and the neural PANX1 interactome (483 proteins) 
identified from mouse Neuro2a (N2a) cells. To identify shared susceptibility 
genes, we compared synaptic suggestive GWAS candidate genes amongst autism 
spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. 
To further probe PANX1 signaling pathways at the synapse, we used bioinformatics 
tools to identify PANX1 interactome signaling pathways and protein-protein 
interaction clusters. To shed light on synaptic disease mechanisms potentially 
linking PANX1 and these four neurological conditions, we performed additional 
cross-analyses between gene ontologies enriched for the PANX1 synaptic and 
disease-susceptibility gene sets. Finally, to explore the regional specificity 
of synaptic PANX1-neurological condition connections, we identified brain 
region-specific elevations of synaptic PANX1 interactome and GWAS candidate gene 
set transcripts. Our results confirm considerable overlap in risk genes for 
autism spectrum disorders and schizophrenia and identify potential commonalities 
in genetic susceptibility for neurodevelopmental disorders and neurodegenerative 
diseases. Our findings also pinpointed novel putative PANX1 links to synaptic 
disease-associated pathways, such as regulation of vesicular trafficking and 
proteostasis, warranting further validation.

DOI: 10.1080/19336950.2023.2253102
PMCID: PMC10563626
PMID: 37807670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the authors.


JMIR Form Res. 2023 Sep 27;7:e47486. doi: 10.2196/47486.

Toward Personalized Medicine Approaches for Parkinson Disease Using Digital 
Technologies.

Khanna A(1), Jones G(#)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Global Drug Development, Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(2)GDD Connected Health and Innovation Group, Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East 
Hanover, NJ, United States.
(3)Clinical and Translational Science Institute, Tufts University Medical 
Center, Boston, MA, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

Parkinson disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder that afflicts 
over 10 million people worldwide, resulting in debilitating motor and cognitive 
impairment. In the United States alone (with approximately 1 million cases), the 
economic burden for treating and caring for persons with PD exceeds US $50 
billion and myriad therapeutic approaches are under development, including both 
symptomatic- and disease-modifying agents. The challenges presented in 
addressing PD are compounded by observations that numerous, statistically 
distinct patient phenotypes present with a wide variety of motor and nonmotor 
symptomatic profiles, varying responses to current standard-of-care 
symptom-alleviating medications (L-DOPA and dopaminergic agonists), and 
different disease trajectories. The existence of these differing phenotypes 
highlights the opportunities in personalized approaches to symptom management 
and disease control. The prodromal period of PD can span across several decades, 
allowing the potential to leverage the unique array of composite symptoms 
presented to trigger early interventions. This may be especially beneficial as 
disease progression in PD (alongside Alzheimer disease and Huntington disease) 
may be influenced by biological processes such as oxidative stress, offering the 
potential for individual lifestyle factors to be tailored to delay disease 
onset. In this viewpoint, we offer potential scenarios where emerging diagnostic 
and monitoring strategies might be tailored to the individual patient under the 
tenets of P4 medicine (predict, prevent, personalize, and participate). These 
approaches may be especially relevant as the causative factors and biochemical 
pathways responsible for the observed neurodegeneration in patients with PD 
remain areas of fluid debate. The numerous observational patient cohorts 
established globally offer an excellent opportunity to test and refine 
approaches to detect, characterize, control, modify the course, and ultimately 
stop progression of this debilitating disease. Such approaches may also help 
development of parallel interventive strategies in other diseases such as 
Alzheimer disease and Huntington disease, which share common traits and 
etiologies with PD. In this overview, we highlight near-term opportunities to 
apply P4 medicine principles for patients with PD and introduce the concept of 
composite orthogonal patient monitoring.

©Amit Khanna, Graham Jones. Originally published in JMIR Formative Research 
(https://formative.jmir.org), 27.09.2023.

DOI: 10.2196/47486
PMCID: PMC10568402
PMID: 37756050

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: The authors are employees 
of Novartis Pharmaceuticals. Views expressed are those of the authors and 
Novartis Pharmaceuticals had no influence on the content of the submitted 
manuscript.


