Cell Metab. 2024 Jun 4;36(6):1335-1350.e8. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2024.04.010. Epub 
2024 May 2.

Dietary intake and glutamine-serine metabolism control pathologic vascular 
stiffness.

Rachedi NS(1), Tang Y(2), Tai YY(2), Zhao J(2), Chauvet C(1), Grynblat J(3), 
Akoumia KKF(4), Estephan L(2), Torrino S(1), Sbai C(1), Ait-Mouffok A(1), 
Latoche JD(5), Al Aaraj Y(2), Brau F(1), Abélanet S(1), Clavel S(1), Zhang Y(6), 
Guillermier C(7), Kumar NVG(8), Tavakoli S(9), Mercier O(10), Risbano MG(6), Yao 
ZK(11), Yang G(11), Ouerfelli O(11), Lewis JS(11), Montani D(12), Humbert M(10), 
Steinhauser ML(13), Anderson CJ(14), Oldham WM(15), Perros F(16), Bertero T(17), 
Chan SY(18).

Author information:
(1)Université Côte d'Azur, CNRS, INSERM, IPMC, IHU-RespirERA, Valbonne, France.
(2)Center for Pulmonary Vascular Biology and Medicine, Pittsburgh Heart, Lung, 
and Blood Vascular Medicine Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Division of 
Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine 
and UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)Université Paris-Saclay, AP-HP, INSERM UMR_S 999, Service de Pneumologie et 
Soins Intensifs Respiratoires, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France; 
Pôle Thoracique, Vasculaire et Transplantations, Hôpital Marie Lannelongue, Le 
Plessis-Robinson, France.
(4)Université Paris-Saclay, AP-HP, INSERM UMR_S 999, Service de Pneumologie et 
Soins Intensifs Respiratoires, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France.
(5)Hillman Cancer Center, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and UPMC, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(6)Center for Pulmonary Vascular Biology and Medicine, Pittsburgh Heart, Lung, 
and Blood Vascular Medicine Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Division of 
Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine and UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(7)Center for NanoImaging, Division of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital 
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(8)Aging Institute, Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University 
of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(9)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine and UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Department of Radiology, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(10)Université Paris-Saclay, AP-HP, INSERM UMR_S 999, Service de Pneumologie et 
Soins Intensifs Respiratoires, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France; 
Assistance PubliqueHôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), Service de Pneumologie et Soins 
Intensifs Respiratoires, Centre de Référence de l'Hypertension Pulmonaire, 
Hôpital Bicêtre, 94270 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(11)Molecular Pharmacology and Chemistry Program and Organic Synthesis Core 
Facility, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, USA.
(12)Pôle Thoracique, Vasculaire et Transplantations, Hôpital Marie Lannelongue, 
Le Plessis-Robinson, France; Assistance PubliqueHôpitaux de Paris (AP-HP), 
Service de Pneumologie et Soins Intensifs Respiratoires, Centre de Référence de 
l'Hypertension Pulmonaire, Hôpital Bicêtre, 94270 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France.
(13)Center for NanoImaging, Division of Genetics, Brigham and Women's Hospital 
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA; Aging Institute, Division of 
Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine 
and UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(14)Department of Chemistry, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.
(15)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(16)Université Paris-Saclay, AP-HP, INSERM UMR_S 999, Service de Pneumologie et 
Soins Intensifs Respiratoires, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France; 
Laboratoire CarMeN, UMR INSERM U1060/INRA U1397, Université Claude Bernard 
Lyon1, 69310 Pierre-Bénite, France.
(17)Université Côte d'Azur, CNRS, INSERM, IPMC, IHU-RespirERA, Valbonne, France. 
Electronic address: thomas.bertero@univ-cotedazur.fr.
(18)Center for Pulmonary Vascular Biology and Medicine, Pittsburgh Heart, Lung, 
and Blood Vascular Medicine Institute, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Division of 
Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine 
and UPMC, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. Electronic address: chansy@pitt.edu.

Perivascular collagen deposition by activated fibroblasts promotes vascular 
stiffening and drives cardiovascular diseases such as pulmonary hypertension 
(PH). Whether and how vascular fibroblasts rewire their metabolism to sustain 
collagen biosynthesis remains unknown. Here, we found that inflammation, 
hypoxia, and mechanical stress converge on activating the transcriptional 
coactivators YAP and TAZ (WWTR1) in pulmonary arterial adventitial fibroblasts 
(PAAFs). Consequently, YAP and TAZ drive glutamine and serine catabolism to 
sustain proline and glycine anabolism and promote collagen biosynthesis. 
Pharmacologic or dietary intervention on proline and glycine anabolic demand 
decreases vascular stiffening and improves cardiovascular function in PH rodent 
models. By identifying the limiting metabolic pathways for vascular collagen 
biosynthesis, our findings provide guidance for incorporating metabolic and 
dietary interventions for treating cardiopulmonary vascular disease.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2024.04.010
PMCID: PMC11152997
PMID: 38701775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interests S.Y.C. has served as a 
consultant for Merck, Janssen, and United Therapeutics. S.Y.C. is a director, 
officer, and shareholder in Synhale Therapeutics. S.Y.C. has held research 
grants from WoodNext, Bayer, and United Therapeutics. S.Y.C. and T.B. have filed 
patent applications regarding the targeting of metabolism in pulmonary 
hypertension. G.Y., Z.-K.Y., and O.O. are listed as inventors in patents not 
related to this work, which are filed by MSKCC. O.O. receives royalties from 
MSKCC, Johnson & Johnson, Jazz, and Y-mAbs and owns shares in Angiogenex, for 
which he is an unpaid member of the SAB, all of which are not related to this 
work.


Pharmaceuticals (Basel). 2023 Feb 23;16(3):345. doi: 10.3390/ph16030345.

A Cross Talk between the Endocannabinoid System and Different Systems Involved 
in the Pathogenesis of Hypertensive Retinopathy.

Alswailmi FK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, College of Pharmacy, University of Hafr Al 
Batin, Hafr Al Batin 39524, Saudi Arabia.

The prognosis of hypertension leads to organ damage by causing nephropathy, 
stroke, retinopathy, and cardiomegaly. Retinopathy and blood pressure have been 
extensively discussed in relation to catecholamines of the autonomic nervous 
system (ANS) and angiotensin II of the renin-angiotensin aldosterone system 
(RAAS) but very little research has been conducted on the role of the ECS in the 
regulation of retinopathy and blood pressure. The endocannabinoid system (ECS) 
is a unique system in the body that can be considered as a master regulator of 
body functions. It encompasses the endogenous production of its cannabinoids, 
its degrading enzymes, and functional receptors which innervate and perform 
various functions in different organs of the body. Hypertensive retinopathy 
pathologies arise normally due to oxidative stress, ischemia, endothelium 
dysfunction, inflammation, and an activated renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and 
catecholamine which are vasoconstrictors in their biological nature. The 
question arises of which system or agent counterbalances the vasoconstrictors 
effect of noradrenaline and angiotensin II (Ang II) in normal individuals? In 
this review article, we discuss the role of the ECS and its contribution to the 
pathogenesis of hypertensive retinopathy. This review article will also examine 
the involvement of the RAS and the ANS in the pathogenesis of hypertensive 
retinopathy and the crosstalk between these three systems in hypertensive 
retinopathy. This review will also explain that the ECS, which is a vasodilator 
in its action, either independently counteracts the effect produced with the 
vasoconstriction of the ANS and Ang II or blocks some of the common pathways 
shared by the ECS, ANS, and Ang II in the regulation of eye functions and blood 
pressure. This article concludes that persistent control of blood pressure and 
normal functions of the eye are maintained either by decreasing systemic 
catecholamine, ang II, or by upregulation of the ECS which results in the 
regression of retinopathy induced by hypertension.

DOI: 10.3390/ph16030345
PMCID: PMC10058254
PMID: 36986445

Conflict of interest statement: Author declares no conflict of interest.


Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2022 Nov;22(11):735-743. doi: 
10.1007/s11910-022-01239-x. Epub 2022 Oct 1.

Promise of Physiological Profiling to Prevent Stroke in People of African 
Ancestry: Prototyping Ghana.

Sarfo FS(1)(2), Ovbiagele B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science & Technology, 
Private Mail Bag, Kumasi, Ghana. stephensarfo78@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Medicine, Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital, Kumasi, Ghana. 
stephensarfo78@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Worldwide, compared to other racial/ethnic groups, 
individuals of African ancestry have an excessively higher burden of 
hypertension-related morbidities, especially stroke. Identifying modifiable 
biological targets that contribute to these disparities could improve global 
stroke outcomes. In this scoping review, we discuss how pathological 
perturbations in the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone pathways could be harnessed 
via physiological profiling for the purposes of improving blood pressure control 
for stroke prevention among people of African ancestry.
RECENT FINDINGS: Transcontinental comparative data from the USA and Ghana show 
that the prevalence of treatment-resistant hypertension among stroke survivors 
is 42.7% among indigenous Africans, 16.1% among African Americans, and 6.9% 
among non-Hispanic Whites, p < 0.0001. A multicenter clinical trial of patients 
without stroke in 3 African countries (Nigeria, Kenya, and South Africa) 
demonstrated that physiological profiling using plasma renin activity and 
aldosterone to individualize selection of antihypertensive medications compared 
with usual care resulted in better blood pressure control with fewer medications 
over 12 months. Among Ghanaian ischemic stroke survivors treated without 
renin-aldosterone profiling data, an analysis revealed that those with low renin 
phenotypes did not achieve any meaningful reduction in blood pressure over 
12 months on 3-4 antihypertensive medications despite excellent adherence. For a 
polygenic condition such as hypertension, individualized therapy based on plasma 
renin-aldosterone-guided selection of therapy for uncontrolled BP following 
precision medicine principles may be a viable strategy for primary and secondary 
stroke prevention with the potential to reduce disparities in the poor outcomes 
of stroke disproportionately shared by individuals of African ancestry. A 
dedicated clinical trial to test this hypothesis is warranted.

© 2022. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-022-01239-x
PMID: 36181575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


J Neuropathol Exp Neurol. 2022 Aug 16;81(9):731-745. doi: 10.1093/jnen/nlac057.

Distinct Brain Proteomic Signatures in Cerebral Small Vessel Disease Rat Models 
of Hypertension and Cerebral Amyloid Angiopathy.

Schrader JM(1)(2), Stanisavljevic A(1)(2), Xu F(1)(2), Van Nostrand WE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)From the George and Anne Ryan Institute for Neuroscience.
(2)Department of Biomedical and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Rhode 
Island, Kingston, Rhode Island, USA.

Cerebral small vessel diseases (CSVDs) are prominent contributors to vascular 
cognitive impairment and dementia and can arise from a range of etiologies. 
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and hypertension (HTN), both prevalent in the 
elderly population, lead to cerebral microhemorrhages, macrohemorrhages, and 
white matter damage. However, their respective underlying mechanisms and 
molecular events are poorly understood. Here, we show that the transgenic rat 
model of CAA type 1 (rTg-DI) exhibits perivascular inflammation that is lacking 
in the spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone (SHR-SP) rat model of HTN. 
Alternatively, SHR-SP rats display notable dilation of arteriolar perivascular 
spaces. Comparative proteomics analysis revealed few shared altered proteins, 
with key proteins such as ANXA3, H2A, and HTRA1 unique to rTg-DI rats, and Nt5e, 
Flot-1 and Flot-2 unique to SHR-SP rats. Immunolabeling confirmed that 
upregulation of ANXA3, HTRA1, and neutrophil extracellular trap proteins were 
distinctly associated with rTg-DI rats. Pathway analysis predicted activation of 
TGF-β1 and TNFα in rTg-DI rat brain, while insulin signaling was reduced in the 
SHR-SP rat brain. Thus, we report divergent protein signatures associated with 
distinct cerebral vessel pathologies in the SHR-SP and rTg-DI rat models and 
provide new mechanistic insight into these different forms of CSVD.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of American 
Association of Neuropathologists, Inc. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jnen/nlac057
PMCID: PMC9803909
PMID: 35856898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2022 Oct 20;23(11):1471-1481. doi: 
10.1093/ehjci/jeac101.

Pericardial adiposity is independently linked to adverse cardiovascular 
phenotypes: a CMR study of 42 598 UK Biobank participants.

Ardissino M(1), McCracken C(2)(3), Bard A(2), Antoniades C(3)(4), Neubauer S(3), 
Harvey NC(5)(6), Petersen SE(2)(7)(8)(9), Raisi-Estabragh Z(2)(7).

Author information:
(1)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, Hammersmith 
Hospital, London W12 0NN, UK.
(2)William Harvey Research Institute, NIHR Barts Biomedical Research Centre, 
Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse Square, London EC1M 6BQ, UK.
(3)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Radcliffe Department of Medicine, 
University of Oxford, National Institute for Health Research Oxford Biomedical 
Research Centre, Oxford University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, Oxford OX3 
9DUUK.
(4)Acute Vascular Imaging Centre, Radcliffe Department of Medicine, University 
of Oxford, Oxford OX1 2JD, UK.
(5)MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Centre, University of Southampton, Southampton 
SO16 6YD, UK.
(6)NIHR Southampton Biomedical Research Centre, University of Southampton and 
University Hospital Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton SO16 6YDUK.
(7)Barts Heart Centre, St Bartholomew's Hospital, Barts Health NHS Trust, West 
Smithfield EC1A 7BE, UK.
(8)Health Data Research UK, London, UK.
(9)Alan Turing Institute, London, UK.

AIMS: We evaluated independent associations of cardiovascular magnetic resonance 
(CMR)-measured pericardial adipose tissue (PAT) with cardiovascular structure 
and function and considered underlying mechanism in 42 598 UK Biobank 
participants.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We extracted PAT and selected CMR metrics using automated 
pipelines. We estimated associations of PAT with each CMR metric using linear 
regression adjusting for age, sex, ethnicity, deprivation, smoking, exercise, 
processed food intake, body mass index, diabetes, hypertension, height 
cholesterol, waist-to-hip ratio, impedance fat measures, and magnetic resonance 
imaging abdominal visceral adiposity measures. Higher PAT was independently 
associated with unhealthy left ventricular (LV) structure (greater wall 
thickness, higher LV mass, more concentric pattern of LV hypertrophy), poorer LV 
function (lower LV global function index, lower LV stroke volume), lower left 
atrial ejection fraction, and lower aortic distensibility. We used multiple 
mediation analysis to examine the potential mediating effect of cardiometabolic 
diseases and blood biomarkers (lipid profile, glycaemic control, inflammation) 
in the PAT-CMR relationships. Higher PAT was associated with cardiometabolic 
disease (hypertension, diabetes, high cholesterol), adverse serum lipids, poorer 
glycaemic control, and greater systemic inflammation. We identified potential 
mediation pathways via hypertension, adverse lipids, and inflammation markers, 
which overall only partially explained the PAT-CMR relationships.
CONCLUSION: We demonstrate association of PAT with unhealthy cardiovascular 
structure and function, independent of baseline comorbidities, vascular risk 
factors, inflammatory markers, and multiple non-invasive and imaging measures of 
obesity. Our findings support an independent role of PAT in adversely impacting 
cardiovascular health and highlight CMR-measured PAT as a potential novel 
imaging biomarker of cardiovascular risk.

© The Author(s) 2022. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjci/jeac101
PMCID: PMC9584621
PMID: 35640889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: S.E.P. provides 
consultancy to and owns stock of Circle Cardiovascular Imaging Inc, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada. CA and SN are Founders, Share holders and Directors of Caristo 
Diagnostics, a CT Image analysis spinout company from the University of Oxford. 
C.A. is also inventor of relevant patents US10,695,023B2, PCT/GB2017/053262, 
GB2018/1818049.7, GR20180100490, and GR20180100510, licensed through exclusive 
license to Caristo Diagnostics. The remaining authors have no disclosures.


JCI Insight. 2022 May 23;7(10):e157035. doi: 10.1172/jci.insight.157035.

Genome-wide studies reveal factors associated with circulating uromodulin and 
its relationships to complex diseases.

Li Y(1), Cheng Y(1)(2), Consolato F(3), Schiano G(4), Chong MR(5)(6)(7), 
Pietzner M(8)(9), Nguyen NQH(10), Scherer N(1)(11), Biggs ML(12)(13), Kleber 
ME(14)(15), Haug S(1), Göçmen B(1), Pigeyre M(5)(16), Sekula P(1), Steinbrenner 
I(1), Schlosser P(1)(17), Joseph CB(18), Brody JA(12), Grams ME(17)(19), Hayward 
C(18), Schultheiss UT(1)(20), Krämer BK(15), Kronenberg F(21), Peters A(22)(23), 
Seissler J(24), Steubl D(25)(26)(27), Then C(24), Wuttke M(1)(20), März 
W(15)(28)(29), Eckardt KU(30)(31), Gieger C(22)(32)(33), Boerwinkle E(34)(35), 
Psaty BM(12)(36)(37), Coresh J(17), Oefner PJ(38), Pare G(5)(7), Langenberg 
C(8)(9), Scherberich JE(39), Yu B(10), Akilesh S(40), Devuyst O(4), Rampoldi 
L(3), Köttgen A(1)(17)(41).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine and Medical Center, 
and.
(2)Faculty of Biology, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Molecular Genetics of Renal Disorders group, Division of Genetics and Cell 
Biology, IRCCS Ospedale San Raffaele, Milan, Italy.
(4)Institute of Physiology, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Population Health Research Institute and Thrombosis and Atherosclerosis 
Research Institute, David Braley Cardiac, Vascular and Stroke Research 
Institute, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(6)Department of Biochemistry and Biomedical Sciences and.
(7)Department of Pathology and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Health Science, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(8)Medical Research Council (MRC) Epidemiology Unit, Institute of Metabolic 
Science, University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge, United 
Kingdom.
(9)Computational Medicine, Berlin Institute of Health at Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(10)Department of Epidemiology, Human Genetics and Environmental Sciences, 
School of Public Health, University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, 
Houston, Texas, USA.
(11)Spemann Graduate School of Biology and Medicine, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.
(12)Cardiovascular Health Research Unit, Department of Medicine, and.
(13)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.
(14)SYNLAB MVZ Humangenetik Mannheim GmbH, Mannheim, Germany.
(15)Vth Department of Medicine, Medical Faculty Mannheim, Heidelberg University, 
Mannheim, Germany.
(16)Department of Medicine, Michael G. DeGroote School of Medicine, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
(17)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(18)MRC Human Genetics Unit, Institute of Genetics and Cancer, University of 
Edinburgh, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, United Kingdom.
(19)Division of Nephrology, School of Medicine, Johns Hopkins University, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(20)Department of Medicine IV: Nephrology and Primary Care, Faculty of Medicine 
and Medical Center, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(21)Institute of Genetic Epidemiology, Medical University of Innsbruck, 
Innsbruck, Austria.
(22)Institute of Epidemiology, Helmholtz Center Munich, German Research Center 
for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(23)Chair of Epidemiology, Institute for Medical Information Processing, 
Biometry, and Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität 
(LMU), Munich, Germany.
(24)Medical Clinic and Policlinic IV, Hospital of the University of Munich, LMU 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(25)Division of Nephrology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(26)Department of Nephrology, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technical University 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(27)Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, Ingelheim, Germany.
(28)Clinical Institute of Medical and Chemical Laboratory Diagnostics, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(29)SYNLAB Academy, SYNLAB Holding Deutschland GmbH, Augsburg and Mannheim, 
Germany.
(30)Department of Nephrology and Medical Intensive Care, Charité - 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(31)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany.
(32)Research Unit of Molecular Epidemiology, Helmholtz Center Munich, German 
Research Center for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.
(33)German Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Partner Munich, Neuherberg, 
Germany.
(34)Human Genetics Center, School of Public Health, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas, USA.
(35)Human Genome Sequencing Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, 
USA.
(36)Department of Epidemiology and.
(37)Department of Health Systems and Population Health, School of Public Health, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(38)Institute of Functional Genomics, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, 
Germany.
(39)Munich Clinic Harlaching, LMU Munich, Munich, Germany.
(40)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA.
(41)Centre for Integrative Biological Signalling Studies (CIBSS), University of 
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Uromodulin (UMOD) is a major risk gene for monogenic and complex forms of kidney 
disease. The encoded kidney-specific protein uromodulin is highly abundant in 
urine and related to chronic kidney disease, hypertension, and pathogen defense. 
To gain insights into potential systemic roles, we performed genome-wide screens 
of circulating uromodulin using complementary antibody-based and aptamer-based 
assays. We detected 3 and 10 distinct significant loci, respectively. 
Integration of antibody-based results at the UMOD locus with functional genomics 
data (RNA-Seq, ATAC-Seq, Hi-C) of primary human kidney tissue highlighted an 
upstream variant with differential accessibility and transcription in 
uromodulin-synthesizing kidney cells as underlying the observed cis effect. 
Shared association patterns with complex traits, including chronic kidney 
disease and blood pressure, placed the PRKAG2 locus in the same pathway as UMOD. 
Experimental validation of the third antibody-based locus, B4GALNT2, showed that 
the p.Cys466Arg variant of the encoded N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase had a 
loss-of-function effect leading to higher serum uromodulin levels. Aptamer-based 
results pointed to enzymes writing glycan marks present on uromodulin and to 
their receptors in the circulation, suggesting that this assay permits 
investigating uromodulin's complex glycosylation rather than its quantitative 
levels. Overall, our study provides insights into circulating uromodulin and its 
emerging functions.

DOI: 10.1172/jci.insight.157035
PMCID: PMC9220927
PMID: 35446786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


J Psychopathol Clin Sci. 2022 Apr;131(3):278-286. doi: 10.1037/abn0000744. Epub 
2022 Feb 17.

Genetic variation mediating neuroticism's influence on cardiovascular diseases.

Zhang F(1), Cao H(2), Baranova A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry.
(2)School of Systems Biology.

The personality of neuroticism is phenotypically associated with cardiovascular 
diseases (CVD), but the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood. We 
conducted Mendelian randomization analysis to investigate causal relationships 
between neuroticism and CVD (including coronary artery disease, heart failure, 
atrial fibrillation, stroke, and hypertensive disease) using summary results of 
genome-wide association studies for these traits. Our results show that although 
neuroticism has low or minimal correlations with CVD in general, there are 
substantial polygenic overlaps between neuroticism and CVD (20%∼97%). Mendelian 
randomization analysis indicates that genetic liability to neuroticism exerts 
causal effects on CVD, but not the reverse. A panel of pleiotropic genes is 
shared by neuroticism and CVD, pointing to the potential role of the 
SOX-WNT/β-catenin-T-cell-specific transcription factors/lymphoid enhancer 
factors pathway. Our study suggests that genetics may mediate the influence of 
neuroticism on CVD. The results shed light on mechanisms underlying phenotypic 
relationships between neuroticism and CVD and have implications for personalized 
prevention of CVD with the potential benefits of incorporating personality 
management into the treatment regimen. (PsycInfo Database Record (c) 2022 APA, 
all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/abn0000744
PMID: 35230853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Nat Rev Cardiol. 2021 Jul;18(7):499-521. doi: 10.1038/s41569-021-00511-w. Epub 
2021 Feb 22.

Endoplasmic reticulum stress and unfolded protein response in cardiovascular 
diseases.

Ren J(1)(2)(3), Bi Y(4), Sowers JR(5)(6), Hetz C(7)(8)(9)(10), Zhang Y(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology and Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. jren@uw.edu.
(2)Center for Cardiovascular Research and Alternative Medicine, University of 
Wyoming College of Health Sciences, Laramie, WY, USA. jren@uw.edu.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA. jren@uw.edu.
(4)Department of Cardiology and Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Dalton Cardiovascular Research Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, 
USA.
(6)Diabetes and Cardiovascular Center, University of Missouri School of 
Medicine, Columbia, MO, USA.
(7)Biomedical Neuroscience Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Chile, 
Santiago, Chile.
(8)FONDAP Center for Geroscience Brain Health and Metabolism, Santiago, Chile.
(9)Program of Cellular and Molecular Biology, Institute of Biomedical Science, 
University of Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(10)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, CA, USA.
(11)Department of Cardiology and Shanghai Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, 
Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China. zhangym197951@126.com.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs), such as ischaemic heart disease, cardiomyopathy, 
atherosclerosis, hypertension, stroke and heart failure, are among the leading 
causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide. Although specific CVDs and the 
associated cardiometabolic abnormalities have distinct pathophysiological and 
clinical manifestations, they often share common traits, including disruption of 
proteostasis resulting in accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER). ER proteostasis is governed by the unfolded protein 
response (UPR), a signalling pathway that adjusts the protein-folding capacity 
of the cell to sustain the cell's secretory function. When the adaptive UPR 
fails to preserve ER homeostasis, a maladaptive or terminal UPR is engaged, 
leading to the disruption of ER integrity and to apoptosis. ER stress functions 
as a double-edged sword, with long-term ER stress resulting in cellular defects 
causing disturbed cardiovascular function. In this Review, we discuss the 
distinct roles of the UPR and ER stress response as both causes and consequences 
of CVD. We also summarize the latest advances in our understanding of the 
importance of the UPR and ER stress in the pathogenesis of CVD and discuss 
potential therapeutic strategies aimed at restoring ER proteostasis in CVDs.

DOI: 10.1038/s41569-021-00511-w
PMID: 33619348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Dermatol Ther. 2021 Jan;34(1):e14721. doi: 10.1111/dth.14721. Epub 2021 Jan 5.

Novel anti-inflammatory therapies to reduce cardiovascular burden of psoriasis.

Piros ÉA(1), Szilveszter B(2), Vattay B(2), Maurovich-Horvat P(2)(3), Szalai 
K(1), Dósa E(4)(5), Merkely B(2), Holló P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Venereology, and Dermatooncology, Semmelweis 
University, Budapest, Hungary.
(2)MTA-SE Cardiovascular Imaging Research Group, Semmelweis University, Heart 
and Vascular Center, Budapest, Hungary.
(3)Department of Radiology, Semmelweis University, Medical Imaging Center, 
Budapest, Hungary.
(4)Department of Interventional Radiology, Semmelweis University, Heart and 
Vascular Center, Budapest, Hungary.
(5)Hungarian Vascular Radiology Research Group, Budapest, Hungary.

Psoriasis mainly affects the skin and joints and has serious impacts on the 
physical, emotional, and financial life of patients. Recent studies have 
demonstrated that other comorbidities are frequently detected in psoriatic 
patients. A strong association with the development of cardiovascular diseases, 
such as hypertension, myocardial infarction, and stroke is responsible for the 
shortened (by 4.5-5 years) life expectancy of severe psoriatic patients. 
Systemic inflammation plays an important role in the interrelationship between 
psoriasis and atherosclerotic plaque formation, which is a common 
immunopathogenic pathway that explains the multiorgan involvement in psoriasis. 
As far life-threatening cardiovascular diseases are very often symptom-free, the 
treating dermatologist's responsibility is to initiate interdisciplinary 
holistic patient care, which may lead to directly saved patients' lives. 
Holistic care of severe psoriatic patients should include regular cardiac 
monitoring using cardiovascular imaging modalities and functional testing to 
detect even subclinical coronary artery disease. Effective anti-inflammatory 
treatment with biologic therapies may have beneficial effects on the 
cardiovascular state and may reduce the incidence of cardiac events. The authors 
review the latest findings on the shared immunopathogenic background of 
psoriasis and cardiovascular diseases and discuss the available data about the 
cardiovascular responses to the currently used biologic treatments.

© 2020 The Authors. Dermatologic Therapy published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1111/dth.14721
PMCID: PMC8244030
PMID: 33373079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


Genes (Basel). 2020 Dec 18;11(12):1514. doi: 10.3390/genes11121514.

Genetic Variants behind Cardiovascular Diseases and Dementia.

Ho WM(1)(2), Wu YY(1)(2), Chen YC(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou Medical Center, 
Taoyuan 33305, Taiwan.
(2)College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan 33302, Taiwan.

Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and dementia are the leading causes of disability 
and mortality. Genetic connections between cardiovascular risk factors and 
dementia have not been elucidated. We conducted a scoping review and pathway 
analysis to reveal the genetic associations underlying both CVDs and dementia. 
In the PubMed database, literature was searched using keywords associated with 
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, white matter hyperintensities, 
cerebral microbleeds, and covert infarctions. Gene lists were extracted from 
these publications to identify shared genes and pathways for each group. This 
included high penetrance genes and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) 
identified through genome wide association studies. Most risk SNPs to both 
diabetes and dementia participate in the phospholipase C enzyme system and the 
downstream nositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and diacylglycerol activities. 
Interestingly, AP-2 (TFAP2) transcription factor family and metabolism of 
vitamins and cofactors were associated with genetic variants that were shared by 
white matter hyperintensities and dementia, and by microbleeds and dementia. 
Variants shared by covert infarctions and dementia were related to VEGF 
ligand-receptor interactions and anti-inflammatory cytokine pathways. Our review 
sheds light on future investigations into the causative relationships behind 
CVDs and dementia, and can be a paradigm of the identification of dementia 
treatments.

DOI: 10.3390/genes11121514
PMCID: PMC7766236
PMID: 33352859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


