BMJ Open Respir Res. 2024 Jun 4;11(1):e002148. doi: 10.1136/bmjresp-2023-002148.

Shared genetic aetiology of respiratory diseases: a genome-wide multitraits 
association analysis.

Chen Z(#)(1), Gao N(#)(2), Wang X(3), Chen X(4), Zeng Y(5), Li C(6), Yang X(7), 
Cai Q(8), Wang X(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University Department of Thoracic Surgery, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, Xi'an Jiaotong University Second Affiliated Hospital 
Department of Oncology, Xi'an, Shaanxi, China.
(4)Department of Orthopaedics, Xiangya Hospital Central South University, 
Changsha, Hunan, China.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Brain Hospital of Hunan Province, Changsha, Hunan, 
China.
(6)Department of Radiology, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University Department of Radiology, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(7)Department of Anesthesiology, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University Department of Anesthesiology, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(8)Department of Thoracic Surgery, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University Department of Thoracic Surgery, Changsha, Hunan, China 
wangxiang@csu.edu.cn 2204130810@csu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to explore the common genetic basis between 
respiratory diseases and to identify shared molecular and biological mechanisms.
METHODS: This genome-wide pleiotropic association study uses multiple 
statistical methods to systematically analyse the shared genetic basis between 
five respiratory diseases (asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, lung cancer and snoring) using the largest 
publicly available genome wide association studies summary statistics. The 
missions of this study are to evaluate global and local genetic correlations, to 
identify pleiotropic loci, to elucidate biological pathways at the multiomics 
level and to explore causal relationships between respiratory diseases. Data 
were collected from 27 November 2022 to 30 March 2023 and analysed from 14 April 
2023 to 13 July 2023.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The primary outcomes are shared genetic loci, 
pleiotropic genes, biological pathways and estimates of genetic correlations and 
causal effects.
RESULTS: Significant genetic correlations were found for 10 paired traits in 5 
respiratory diseases. Cross-Phenotype Association identified 12 400 significant 
potential pleiotropic single-nucleotide polymorphism at 156 independent 
pleiotropic loci. In addition, multitrait colocalisation analysis identified 15 
colocalised loci and a subset of colocalised traits. Gene-based analyses 
identified 432 potential pleiotropic genes and were further validated at the 
transcriptome and protein levels. Both pathway enrichment and single-cell 
enrichment analyses supported the role of the immune system in respiratory 
diseases. Additionally, five pairs of respiratory diseases have a causal 
relationship.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: This study reveals the common genetic basis and 
pleiotropic genes among respiratory diseases. It provides strong evidence for 
further therapeutic strategies and risk prediction for the phenomenon of 
respiratory disease comorbidity.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjresp-2023-002148
PMCID: PMC11163672
PMID: 38834332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


Biomol Concepts. 2022 Feb 21;13(1):34-54. doi: 10.1515/bmc-2022-0001.

Analysis of differentially expressed genes and signaling pathways involved in 
atherosclerosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Kotlyarov S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Ryazan State Medical University, 390026, Ryazan, 
Russian Federation.

Atherosclerosis is an important medical and social problem, and the keys to 
solving this problem are still largely unknown. A common situation in real 
clinical practice is the comorbid course of atherosclerosis with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Diseases share some common risk factors 
and may be closely linked pathogenetically.
METHODS: Bioinformatics analysis of datasets from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) 
was performed to examine the gene ontology (GO) of common differentially 
expressed genes (DEGs) in COPD and peripheral arterial atherosclerosis. DEGs 
were identified using the limma R package with the settings p < 0.05, corrected 
using the Benjamini & Hochberg algorithm and ǀlog 2FCǀ > 1.0. The GO, Kyoto 
Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment, and the 
protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis were performed with the 
detected DEGs.
RESULTS: The biological processes and signaling pathways involving common DEGs 
from airway epithelial datasets in COPD and tissue in peripheral atherosclerosis 
were identified. A total of 15 DEGs were identified, comprising 12 upregulated 
and 3 downregulated DEGs. The GO enrichment analysis demonstrated that the 
upregulated hub genes were mainly involved in the inflammatory response, 
reactive oxygen species metabolic process, cell adhesion, lipid metabolic 
process, regulation of angiogenesis, icosanoid biosynthetic process, and 
cellular response to a chemical stimulus. The KEGG pathway enrichment analysis 
demonstrated that the common pathways were Toll-like receptor signaling pathway, 
NF-kappa B signaling pathway, lipid and atherosclerosis, and cytokine-cytokine 
receptor interaction.
CONCLUSIONS: Biological processes and signaling pathways associated with the 
immune response may link the development and progression of COPD and 
atherosclerosis.

© 2022 Stanislav Kotlyarov, published by De Gruyter.

DOI: 10.1515/bmc-2022-0001
PMID: 35189051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


PLoS One. 2021 Nov 5;16(11):e0259375. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0259375. 
eCollection 2021.

Factors affecting brain structure in smoking-related diseases: Chronic 
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and coronary artery disease.

Spilling CA(1), Dhillon MK(1), Burrage DR(2), Ruickbie S(3), Baker EH(2), 
Barrick TR(1), Jones PW(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurosciences Research Centre, Molecular and Clinical Sciences Research 
Institute, St George's University of London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Institute for Infection and Immunity, St George's University of London, 
London, United Kingdom.
(3)Respiratory Medicine, St George's University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Changes in brain structure and cognitive decline occur in Chronic 
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). They also occur with smoking and coronary 
artery disease (CAD), but it is unclear whether a common mechanism is 
responsible.
METHODS: Brain MRI markers of brain structure were tested for association with 
disease markers in other organs. Where possible, principal component analysis 
(PCA) was used to group markers within organ systems into composite markers. 
Univariate relationships between brain structure and the disease markers were 
explored using hierarchical regression and then entered into multivariable 
regression models.
RESULTS: 100 participants were studied (53 COPD, 47 CAD). PCA identified two 
brain components: brain tissue volumes and white matter microstructure, and six 
components from other organ systems: respiratory function, plasma lipids, blood 
pressure, glucose dysregulation, retinal vessel calibre and retinal vessel 
tortuosity. Several markers could not be grouped into components and were 
analysed as single variables, these included brain white matter hyperintense 
lesion (WMH) volume. Multivariable regression models showed that less well 
organised white matter microstructure was associated with lower respiratory 
function (p = 0.028); WMH volume was associated with higher blood pressure (p = 
0.036) and higher C-Reactive Protein (p = 0.011) and lower brain tissue volume 
was associated with lower cerebral blood flow (p<0.001) and higher blood 
pressure (p = 0.001). Smoking history was not an independent correlate of any 
brain marker.
CONCLUSIONS: Measures of brain structure were associated with a range of markers 
of disease, some of which appeared to be common to both COPD and CAD. No single 
common pathway was identified, but the findings suggest that brain changes 
associated with smoking-related diseases may be due to vascular, respiratory, 
and inflammatory changes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0259375
PMCID: PMC8570465
PMID: 34739504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: DRB was funded by the 
National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) (Doctoral Research Fellow) for 
this research project. DRB was an honorary visiting scientist (April 2019-April 
2020) for GlaxoSmithKline for work unrelated to this research. PWJ is employed 
by GlaxoSmithKline for work unrelated to this research. No other competing 
interests exist. This does not alter our adherence to PLOS ONE policies on 
sharing data and materials.


Respir Res. 2021 Apr 28;22(1):130. doi: 10.1186/s12931-021-01706-y.

InforMing the PAthway of COPD Treatment (IMPACT) trial: fibrinogen levels 
predict risk of moderate or severe exacerbations.

Singh D(1), Criner GJ(2), Dransfield MT(3), Halpin DMG(4), Han MK(5), Lange 
P(6), Lettis S(7), Lipson DA(8)(9), Mannino D(10), Martin N(11)(12), Martinez 
FJ(13), Miller BE(8), Wise R(14), Zhu CQ(7), Lomas D(15).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Respiratory Medicine and Allergy, Institute of Inflammation and 
Repair, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(2)Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple 
University, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(3)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine, Lung Health 
Center, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.
(4)University of Exeter Medical School, College of Medicine and Health, 
University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(5)University of Michigan, Pulmonary & Critical Care, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(6)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(7)Biostatistics, GlaxoSmithKline, Stockley Park West, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.
(8)Clinical Sciences, GlaxoSmithKline, Collegeville, PA, USA.
(9)Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care Division, Department of Medicine, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.
(10)University of Kentucky College of Public Health, Lexington, KY, USA.
(11)Global Medical Affairs, GlaxoSmithKline, Brentford, Middlesex, UK.
(12)Institute for Lung Health, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(13)Weill Cornell Medicine, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(15)Division of Medicine, UCL Respiratory, Rayne Building, University College 
London, London, WC1E 6BN, UK. d.lomas@ucl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Fibrinogen is the first qualified prognostic/predictive biomarker 
for exacerbations in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
The IMPACT trial investigated fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium/vilanterol 
(FF/UMEC/VI) triple therapy versus FF/VI and UMEC/VI in patients with 
symptomatic COPD at risk of exacerbations. This analysis used IMPACT trial data 
to examine the relationship between fibrinogen levels and exacerbation outcomes 
in patients with COPD.
METHODS: 8094 patients with a fibrinogen assessment at Week 16 were included, 
baseline fibrinogen data were not measured. Post hoc analyses were performed by 
fibrinogen quartiles and by 3.5 g/L threshold. Endpoints included on-treatment 
exacerbations and adverse events of special interest (AESIs).
RESULTS: Rates of moderate, moderate/severe, and severe exacerbations were 
higher in the highest versus lowest fibrinogen quartile (0.75, 0.92 and 0.15 vs 
0.67, 0.79 and 0.10, respectively). The rate ratios (95% confidence interval 
[CI]) for exacerbations in patients with fibrinogen levels ≥ 3.5 g/L versus 
those with fibrinogen levels < 3.5 g/L were 1.03 (0.95, 1.11) for moderate 
exacerbations, 1.08 (1.00, 1.15) for moderate/severe exacerbations, and 1.30 
(1.10, 1.54) for severe exacerbations. There was an increased risk of 
moderate/severe exacerbation (hazard ratio [95% CI]: highest vs lowest quartile 
1.16 [1.04, 1.228]; ≥ 3.5 g/L vs < 3.5 g/L: 1.09 [1.00, 1.16]) and severe 
exacerbation (1.35 [1.09, 1.69]; 1.27 [1.08, 1.47], respectively) with 
increasing fibrinogen level. Cardiovascular AESIs were highest in patients in 
the highest fibrinogen quartile.
CONCLUSIONS: Rate and risk of exacerbations was higher in patients with higher 
fibrinogen levels. This supports the validity of fibrinogen as a predictive 
biomarker for COPD exacerbations, and highlights the potential use of fibrinogen 
as an enrichment strategy in trials examining exacerbation outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT02164513.

DOI: 10.1186/s12931-021-01706-y
PMCID: PMC8080358
PMID: 33910578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DS reports personal fees from GSK, AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, Cipla, Genentech, Glenmark, Menarini, Mundipharma, 
Novartis, Peptinnovate, Pfizer, Pulmatrix, Theravance and Verona, and grant 
support from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, Glenmark, Menarini, 
Mundipharma, Novartis, Pfizer, Pulmatrix, Theravance and Verona. GC has received 
personal fees from Almirall, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, CSA 
Medical, Eolo, GSK, HGE Technologies, Novartis, Nuvaira, Olympus, Pulmonx and 
Verona. MD has received personal fees from AstraZeneca, Teva, Boehringer 
Ingelheim and GSK and contracted clinical trial support from AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim and GSK. DH reports personal fees from AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, Chiesi, GSK, Novartis and Pfizer, and non-financial 
support Boehringer Ingelheim and Novartis. MH has received personal fees from 
AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Merck, Mylan and GSK, and research support 
from Novartis and Sunovion. PL reports personal fees and grant support from GSK, 
AstraZeneca and Boehringer Ingelheim. SL, DaLi, NM, and C-QZ are GSK employees 
and hold stock/shares in GSK. DM and BM are former GSK employees and hold 
stock/shares in GSK. FM has received personal fees and non-financial support 
from the American College of Chest Physicians, AstraZeneca, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Chiesi, ConCert, Continuing Education, Genentech, GSK, Inova Fairfax 
Health System, Miller Communications, National Society for Continuing Education, 
Novartis, Pearl Pharmaceuticals, PeerView Communications, Potomac, Prime 
Communications, Puerto Rico Respiratory Society, Roche, Sunovion, Theravance, 
University of Alabama Birmingham, Physicians Education Resource, Canadian 
Respiratory Network and Teva, non-financial support from Gilead, Nitto, 
ProterrixBio and Zambon, personal fees from Columbia University, Integritas, MD 
magazine, Methodist Hospital Brooklyn, New York University, Unity, UpToDate, 
WedMD/MedScape, Western Connecticut Health Network, Academic CME, Patara, 
PlatformIQ, American Thoracic Society, Rockpointe and France Foundation, grant 
support from NIH, Rare Disease Health Communications and ProMedior, and is a 
member of steering committees for Afferent/Merck, Biogen, Veracyte, Prometic, 
Bayer and Bridge Biotherapeutics. RW has been a consultant for Circassia, 
Pneuma, Verona, Mylan/Theravance, Propeller Health, has received personal fees 
from AstraZeneca/Medimmune/Pearl, Boehringer Ingelheim, Contrafect, 
Roche-Genentech, GSK, Merck, AbbVie, ChemRx, Kiniska, Bristol Myers Squibb, 
Galderma, Kamada, Pulmonx, Kinevant and Puretech, has received research grants 
from Boehringer Ingelheim, Sanofi-Aventis and GSK. DaLo has received grant 
income, honoraria, and consultancy fees from GSK, and personal fees from 
Grifols, and chaired the GSK Respiratory Therapy Area Board 2012–2015.


Pain Med. 2019 Nov 1;20(11):2263-2271. doi: 10.1093/pm/pnz113.

The Relationship Between Migraine or Severe Headache and Chronic Health 
Conditions: A Cross-Sectional Study from the National Health Interview Survey 
2013-2015.

Minen MT(1), Weissman J(2), Tietjen GE(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology and Population Health, NYU Langone Health, New York, 
New York.
(2)Department of Molecular Imaging and Neuropathology, New York State 
Psychiatric Institute, New York, New York.
(3)Departments of Neurology and Population Health, NYU Langone Medical Center, 
New York, New York.
(4)Department of Neurology, University of Toledo, Toledo, Ohio, USA.

Comment in
    Pain Med. 2020 Apr 1;21(4):871-872. doi: 10.1093/pm/pnz286.
    Pain Med. 2020 Apr 1;21(4):872-873. doi: 10.1093/pm/pnz288.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of having at least one or two or more 
chronic health conditions among US adults with self-reported migraine or severe 
headaches.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
METHODS: Using data collected from the 2013-2015 National Health Interview 
Survey, we examined adults with and without migraine or severe headache and 
associations with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cancer, heart disease, 
stroke, diabetes, and hypertension. We calculated point estimates, variances, 
and 95% confidence intervals and conducted bivariate and multivariable logistic 
regression modeling to examine the relationships between migraine or severe 
headache and each of the chronic health conditions, as well as multinomial 
modeling, to examine the relationship between migraine or severe headache and 
having one or more chronic health conditions.
RESULTS: A total of 104,926 people were in the study. Adults aged 18 to 44 years 
(18.2%), women (20.1%), and those with some college education (17.6%) had the 
greatest proportion with migraine or severe headache (P < 0.0001). Using 
multinomial modeling with the number of chronic health conditions as the 
dependent variable, adults reporting migraine had an increased odds of reporting 
a single chronic health condition (adjusted odds ratio [aOR] = 1.7, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] = 1.6-1.8) and more than double the odds of reporting 
two or more chronic health conditions (aOR = 2.5, 95% CI = 2.3-2.8) compared 
with adults who did not have migraine or severe headache.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study confirms observed relationships between migraine or 
severe headache and chronic health conditions and supports the need for further 
research to uncover the shared biological pathways.

© 2019 American Academy of Pain Medicine. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pm/pnz113
PMCID: PMC7963202
PMID: 31127846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


mSystems. 2019 Apr 30;4(2):e00058-19. doi: 10.1128/mSystems.00058-19. 
eCollection 2019 Mar-Apr.

Intermittent Hypoxia and Hypercapnia Reproducibly Change the Gut Microbiome and 
Metabolome across Rodent Model Systems.

Tripathi A(#)(1)(2)(3), Xu ZZ(#)(4), Xue J(2), Poulsen O(2), Gonzalez A(2), 
Humphrey G(2), Meehan MJ(3), Melnik AV(3), Ackermann G(2), Zhou D(2), Malhotra 
A(5), Haddad GG(2)(6)(7), Dorrestein PC(2)(8)(9), Knight R(2)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biological Sciences, University of California-San Diego, San 
Diego, California, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, University of California-San Diego, San Diego, 
California, USA.
(3)Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
California-San Diego, San Diego, California, USA.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, Nanchang University, 
Nanchang, China.
(5)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, University of 
California-San Diego, San Diego, California, USA.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, University of California-San Diego, San Diego, 
California, USA.
(7)Rady Children's Hospital-San Diego, San Diego, California, USA.
(8)Collaborative Mass Spectrometry Innovation Center, University of 
California-San Diego, San Diego, California, USA.
(9)Center for Microbiome Innovation, University of California-San Diego, San 
Diego, California, USA.
(10)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California-San 
Diego, San Diego, California, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Studying perturbations in the gut ecosystem using animal models of disease 
continues to provide valuable insights into the role of the microbiome in 
various pathological conditions. However, understanding whether these changes 
are consistent across animal models of different genetic backgrounds, and hence 
potentially translatable to human populations, remains a major unmet challenge 
in the field. Nonetheless, in relatively limited cases have the same 
interventions been studied in two animal models in the same laboratory. 
Moreover, such studies typically examine a single data layer and time point. 
Here, we show the power of utilizing time series microbiome (16S rRNA amplicon 
profiling) and metabolome (untargeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass 
spectrometry [LC-MS/MS]) data to relate two different mouse models of 
atherosclerosis-ApoE-/- (n = 24) and Ldlr-/- (n = 16)-that are exposed to 
intermittent hypoxia and hypercapnia (IHH) longitudinally (for 10 and 6 weeks, 
respectively) to model chronic obstructive sleep apnea. Using random forest 
classifiers trained on each data layer, we show excellent accuracy in predicting 
IHH exposure within ApoE-/- and Ldlr-/- knockout models and in cross-applying 
predictive features found in one animal model to the other. The key microbes and 
metabolites that reproducibly predicted IHH exposure included bacterial species 
from the families Mogibacteriaceae, Clostridiaceae, bile acids, and fatty acids, 
providing a refined set of biomarkers associated with IHH. The results highlight 
that time series multiomics data can be used to relate different animal models 
of disease using supervised machine learning techniques and can provide a 
pathway toward identifying robust microbiome and metabolome features that 
underpin translation from animal models to human disease. IMPORTANCE 
Reproducibility of microbiome research is a major topic of contemporary 
interest. Although it is often possible to distinguish individuals with specific 
diseases within a study, the differences are often inconsistent across cohorts, 
often due to systematic variation in analytical conditions. Here we study the 
same intervention in two different mouse models of cardiovascular disease 
(atherosclerosis) by profiling the microbiome and metabolome in stool specimens 
over time. We demonstrate that shared microbial and metabolic changes are 
involved in both models with the intervention. We then introduce a pipeline for 
finding similar results in other studies. This work will help find common 
features identified across different model systems that are most likely to apply 
in humans.

DOI: 10.1128/mSystems.00058-19
PMCID: PMC6495231
PMID: 31058230


Hum Mol Genet. 2019 Jul 15;28(14):2352-2364. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddz069.

Exploring the cross-phenotype network region of disease modules reveals 
concordant and discordant pathways between chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Halu A(1)(2), Liu S(1)(3), Baek SH(1), Hobbs BD(1)(4), Hunninghake GM(4), Cho 
MH(1)(4), Silverman EK(1)(4), Sharma A(1).

Author information:
(1)Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Center for Interdisciplinary Cardiovascular Sciences, Cardiovascular 
Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame, IN, USA.
(4)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Department of Medicine, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis 
(IPF) are two pathologically distinct chronic lung diseases that are associated 
with cigarette smoking. Genetic studies have identified shared loci for COPD and 
IPF, including several loci with opposite directions of effect. The existence of 
additional shared genetic loci, as well as potential shared pathobiological 
mechanisms between the two diseases at the molecular level, remains to be 
explored. Taking a network-based approach, we built disease modules for COPD and 
IPF using genome-wide association studies-implicated genes. The two disease 
modules displayed strong disease signals in an independent gene expression data 
set of COPD and IPF lung tissue and showed statistically significant overlap and 
network proximity, sharing 19 genes, including ARHGAP12 and BCHE. To uncover 
pathways at the intersection of COPD and IPF, we developed a metric, 
NetPathScore, which prioritizes the pathways of a disease by their network 
overlap with another disease. Applying NetPathScore to the COPD and IPF disease 
modules enabled the determination of concordant and discordant pathways between 
these diseases. Concordant pathways between COPD and IPF included extracellular 
matrix remodeling, Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling and ALK 
pathways, whereas discordant pathways included advanced glycosylation end 
product receptor signaling and telomere maintenance and extension pathways. 
Overall, our findings reveal shared molecular interaction regions between COPD 
and IPF and shed light on the congruent and incongruent biological processes 
lying at the intersection of these two complex diseases.

© The Author(s) 2019. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddz069
PMCID: PMC6606854
PMID: 30997486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Ann Am Thorac Soc. 2018 Dec;15(Suppl 4):S234-S238. doi: 
10.1513/AnnalsATS.201808-533MG.

Targeting Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Phenotypes, Endotypes, and 
Biomarkers.

Garudadri S(1), Woodruff PG(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)1 Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, Ohio; and.
(2)2 Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, Sleep and Allergy, Department of 
Medicine, and.
(3)3 Cardiovascular Research Institute, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is now well recognized to be a 
phenotypically heterogeneous disease, and this heterogeneity is underpinned by 
biological heterogeneity. An "endotype" is a group of patients who share the 
same observed characteristic(s) because of shared underlying biology, and the 
"endotype" concept has emerged as one way of bringing order to this phenotypic 
heterogeneity by focusing on its biological underpinnings. In principle, 
biomarkers can help identify endotypes and mark these specific groups of 
patients as suitable candidates for targeted biological therapies. Among the 
better-described endotypes of COPD are alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency and 
eosinophilic COPD. Both of these endotypes have biomarkers and at least some 
evidence of preferential benefit from targeted therapy. Other biological 
pathways that may define endotypes of COPD include more general pathways of type 
2 inflammation, IL-17-driven inflammation (due to autoimmunity or deposition of 
nanoparticulate carbon black), bacterial colonization, pathological alterations 
of the airway mucus gel, and others that are beyond the scope of this review. 
Whether these biological pathways ultimately are found to segregate patients 
into very distinct endotypes or subsets (like alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency) 
or, instead, are present as "treatable traits" in various combinations is 
uncertain. However imperfect, the endotype concept forces a focus on 
heterogeneity at a biological level, and the development of biomarkers of 
biological heterogeneity should help advance the goal of developing new 
therapies for COPD.

DOI: 10.1513/AnnalsATS.201808-533MG
PMCID: PMC6321999
PMID: 30758998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Inhal Toxicol. 2018 Aug;30(9-10):327-334. doi: 10.1080/08958378.2018.1530316. 
Epub 2018 Dec 5.

The toxicology of air pollution predicts its epidemiology.

Ghio AJ(1), Soukup JM(1), Madden MC(1).

Author information:
(1)a The National Health and Environmental Effects Research Laboratory , 
Environmental Protection Agency , Chapel Hill , NC , USA.

The epidemiologic investigation has successively delineated associations of air 
pollution exposure with non-malignant and malignant lung disease, cardiovascular 
disease, cerebrovascular disease, pregnancy outcomes, perinatal effects and 
other extra-pulmonary disease including diabetes. Defining these relationships 
between air pollution exposure and human health closely parallels results of an 
earlier epidemiologic investigation into cigarette smoking and environmental 
tobacco smoke (ETS), two other particle-related exposures. Humic-like substances 
(HULIS) have been identified as a chemical component common to cigarette smoke 
and air pollution particles. Toxicology studies provide evidence that a 
disruption of iron homeostasis with sequestration of host metal by HULIS is a 
fundamental mechanistic pathway through which biological effects are initiated 
by cigarette smoke and air pollution particles. As a result of a common chemical 
component and a shared mechanistic pathway, it should be possible to extrapolate 
from the epidemiology of cigarette smoking and ETS to predict associations of 
air pollution exposure with human disease, which are currently unrecognized. 
Accordingly, it is anticipated that the forthcoming epidemiologic investigation 
will demonstrate relationships of air pollution with COPD causation, peripheral 
vascular disease, hypertension, renal disease, digestive disease, loss of bone 
mass/risk of fractures, dental disease, eye disease, fertility problems, and 
extrapulmonary malignancies.

DOI: 10.1080/08958378.2018.1530316
PMCID: PMC8167977
PMID: 30516398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


Vitam Horm. 2018;108:1-28. doi: 10.1016/bs.vh.2018.02.002. Epub 2018 Mar 16.

Dehydroepiandrosterone Research: Past, Current, and Future.

Klinge CM(1), Clark BJ(1), Prough RA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Center for Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY, 
United States.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, Center for Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY, 
United States. Electronic address: russ.prough@louisville.edu.

The discovery of "oestrus-producing" hormones was a major research breakthrough 
in biochemistry and pharmacology during the early part of the 20th century. The 
elucidation of the molecular weight and chemical structure of major oxidative 
metabolites of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) led to the award of the Nobel Prize 
in 1939 to Adolf Frederick Johann Butenandt and Leopold Ruzicka. Considered a 
bulk androgen in the circulation, DHEA and its sulfated metabolite DHEA-S can be 
taken up by most tissues where the sterols are metabolized to active androgenic 
and estrogenic compounds needed for growth and development. Butenandt's 
interactions with the German pharmaceutical company Schering led to production 
of gram quantities of these steroids and other chemically modified compounds of 
this class. Sharing chemical expertise allowed Butenandt's laboratory at the 
Kaiser Wilhelm Institute to isolate and synthesize many steroid compounds in the 
elucidation of the pathway leading from cholesterol to testosterone and estrogen 
derivatives. As a major pharmaceutical company worldwide, Schering AG sought 
these new biological sterols as pharmacological agents for endocrine-related 
diseases, and the European medical community tested these compounds in women for 
conditions such as postmenopausal depression, and in men for increasing muscle 
mass. Since it was noted that circulating DHEA-S levels decline as a function of 
age, experimental pathology experiments in animals were performed to determine 
how DHEA may protect against cancer, diabetes, aging, obesity, immune function, 
bone density, depression, adrenal insufficiency, inflammatory bowel disease, 
diminished sexual function/libido, AIDS/HIV, chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease, coronary artery disease, chronic fatigue syndrome, and metabolic 
syndrome. While the mechanisms by which DHEA ameliorates these conditions in 
animal models have been elusive to define, even less is known about its role in 
human disease, other than as a precursor to other sterols, e.g., testosterone 
and estradiol. Our groups have shown that DHEA and many of its oxidative 
metabolites serve as a low-affinity ligands for hepatic nuclear receptors, such 
as the pregnane X receptor, the constitutive androstane receptor, and estrogen 
receptors α/β (ERα/ERβ) as well as G protein-coupled ER (GPER1). This chapter 
highlights the founding research on DHEA from a historical perspective, provides 
an overview of DHEA biosynthesis and metabolism, briefly summarizes the early 
work on the beneficial effects attributed to DHEA in animals, and summarizes the 
human trials addressing the action of DHEA as a therapeutic agent. In general, 
most human studies involve weak correlations of circulating levels of DHEA and 
disease outcomes. Some support for DHEA as a therapeutic compound has been 
demonstrated for postmenopausal women, in vitro fertilization, and several 
autoimmune disorders, and adverse health effects, such as, acne, embryo 
virilization during pregnancy, and possible endocrine-dependent cancers.

© 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/bs.vh.2018.02.002
PMID: 30029723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


